AACSL	empty	AACSP1 (Acetoacetyl-CoA Synthetase Pseudogene 1) is a Pseudogene.	empty	diff
AADAC	Microsomal arylacetamide deacetylase competes against the activity of cytosolic arylamine N-acetyltransferase, which catalyzes one of the initial biotransformation pathways for arylamine and heterocyclic amine carcinogens [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AADAC (Arylacetamide Deacetylase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AADAC include neutral lipid storage disease and ectropion. GO annotations related to this gene include deacetylase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AADACL3.	Displays cellular triglyceride lipase activity in liver, increases the levels of intracellular fatty acids derived from the hydrolysis of newly formed triglyceride stores and plays a role in very low-density lipoprotein assembly. Displays serine esterase activity in liver. Deacetylates a variety of arylacetamide substrates, including xenobiotic compounds and procarcinogens, converting them to the primary arylamide compounds and increasing their toxicity.	same
AAK1	Adaptor-related protein complex 2 (AP-2 complexes) functions during receptor-mediated endocytosis to trigger clathrin assembly, interact with membrane-bound receptors, and recruit encodytic accessory factors. This gene encodes a member of the SNF1 subfamily of Ser/Thr protein kinases. The protein interacts with and phosphorylates a subunit of the AP-2 complex, which promotes binding of AP-2 to sorting signals found in membrane-bound receptors and subsequent receptor endocytosis. Its kinase activity is stimulated by clathrin. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described, but their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AAK1 (AP2 Associated Kinase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and AP-2 adaptor complex binding. An important paralog of this gene is BMP2K.	Regulates clathrin-mediated endocytosis by phosphorylating the AP2M1/mu2 subunit of the adaptor protein complex 2 (AP-2) which ensures high affinity binding of AP-2 to cargo membrane proteins during the initial stages of endocytosis. Isoform 1 and isoform 2 display similar levels of kinase activity towards AP2M1. Regulates phosphorylation of other AP-2 subunits as well as AP-2 localization and AP-2-mediated internalization of ligand complexes. Phosphorylates NUMB and regulates its cellular localization, promoting NUMB localization to endosomes. Binds to and stabilizes the activated form of NOTCH1, increases its localization in endosomes and regulates its transcriptional activity.	same
A2LD1	The protein encoded by this gene aids in the proteolytic degradation of crosslinked fibrin by breaking down isodipeptide L-gamma-glutamyl-L-epsilon-lysine, a byproduct of fibrin degradation. The reaction catalyzed by the encoded gamma-glutamylaminecyclotransferase produces 5-oxo-L-proline and a free alkylamine. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]	GGACT (Gamma-Glutamylamine Cyclotransferase) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include gamma-glutamylcyclotransferase activity.	Contributes to degradation of proteins cross-linked by transglutaminases. Degrades the cross-link between a lysine and a glutamic acid residue from two proteins that have been cross-linked by transglutaminases. Catalyzes the formation of 5-oxoproline from L-gamma-glutamyl-L-epsilon-lysine. Inactive with L-gamma-glutamyl-alpha-amino acid substrates such as L-gamma-glutamyl-L-alpha-cysteine and L-gamma-glutamyl-L-alpha-alanine.	diff
AAGAB	The protein encoded by this gene interacts with the gamma-adaptin and alpha-adaptin subunits of complexes involved in clathrin-coated vesicle trafficking. Mutations in this gene are associated with type I punctate palmoplantar keratoderma. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]	AAGAB (Alpha- And Gamma-Adaptin Binding Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AAGAB include keratoderma, palmoplantar, punctate type ia and keratoderma.	May be involved in endocytic recycling of growth factor receptors such as EGFR.	same
AACS	empty	AACS (Acetoacetyl-CoA Synthetase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AACS include tracheal cancer. Among its related pathways are Butanoate metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include butyrate-CoA ligase activity and acetoacetate-CoA ligase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACSS3.	Activates acetoacetate to acetoacetyl-CoA. May be involved in utilizing ketone body for the fatty acid-synthesis during adipose tissue development (By similarity).	same
AAMP	The gene is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily. The encoded protein is associated with angiogenesis, with potential roles in endothelial tube formation and the migration of endothelial cells. It may also regulate smooth muscle cell migration via the RhoA pathway. The encoded protein can bind to heparin and may mediate heparin-sensitive cell adhesion. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014]	AAMP (Angio-Associated, Migratory Cell Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AAMP include colon adenocarcinoma and adenocarcinoma. Among its related pathways are Nucleotide-binding domain, leucine rich repeat containing receptor (NLR) signaling pathways. GO annotations related to this gene include heparin binding. An important paralog of this gene is WDR61.	Plays a role in angiogenesis and cell migration. In smooth muscle cell migration, may act through the RhoA pathway.	same
AADACL2	empty	AADACL2 (Arylacetamide Deacetylase-Like 2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is AADAC.	empty	same
AAA1	empty	AAA1 (Aortic Aneurysm, Familial Abdominal 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AAA1 include aneurysm and abdominal aortic aneurysm.	empty	same
AADACL4	empty	AADACL4 (Arylacetamide Deacetylase-Like 4) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is AADAC.	empty	same
A4GNT	This gene encodes a protein from the glycosyltransferase 32 family. The enzyme catalyzes the transfer of N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) to core 2 branched O-glycans. It forms a unique glycan, GlcNAcalpha1-->4Galbeta-->R and is largely associated with the Golgi apparatus membrane. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	A4GNT (Alpha-1,4-N-Acetylglucosaminyltransferase) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are heparan sulfate biosynthesis and heparan sulfate biosynthesis. GO annotations related to this gene include galactosyltransferase activity and acetylglucosaminyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is A4GALT.	Necessary for the synthesis of type III mucin. Catalyzes the transfer of N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) to core 2 branched O-glycans	same
AAAS	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the WD-repeat family of regulatory proteins and may be involved in normal development of the peripheral and central nervous system. The encoded protein is part of the nuclear pore complex and is anchored there by NDC1. Defects in this gene are a cause of achalasia-addisonianism-alacrima syndrome (AAAS), also called triple-A syndrome or Allgrove syndrome. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]	AAAS (Achalasia, Adrenocortical Insufficiency, Alacrimia) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AAAS include achalasia-addisonianism-alacrimia syndrome and abdominal aortic aneurysm. Among its related pathways are Disease and Cell Cycle, Mitotic.	Plays a role in the normal development of the peripheral and central nervous system	same
A4GALT	The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the transfer of galactose to lactosylceramide to form globotriaosylceramide, which has been identified as the P(k) antigen of the P blood group system. The encoded protein, which is a type II membrane protein found in the Golgi, is also required for the synthesis of the bacterial verotoxins receptor. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	A4GALT (Alpha 1,4-Galactosyltransferase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with A4GALT include nor polyagglutination syndrome and caffey disease. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Glycosphingolipid biosynthesis - globo series. GO annotations related to this gene include galactosyltransferase activity and lactosylceramide 4-alpha-galactosyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is A4GNT.	Necessary for the biosynthesis of the Pk antigen of blood histogroup P. Catalyzes the transfer of galactose to lactosylceramide and galactosylceramide. Necessary for the synthesis of the receptor for bacterial verotoxins	same
A2ML1	This gene encodes a member of the alpha-macroglobulin superfamily. The encoded protein acts as an inhibitor for several proteases, and has been reported as the p170 antigen recognized by autoantibodies in the autoimmune disease paraneoplastic pemphigus (PNP; PMID: 20805888). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]	A2ML1 (Alpha-2-Macroglobulin-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with A2ML1 include noonan syndrome 1 and paraneoplastic pemphigus. GO annotations related to this gene include serine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity and peptidase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CD109.	Is able to inhibit all four classes of proteinases by a unique trapping mechanism. This protein has a peptide stretch, called the bait region which contains specific cleavage sites for different proteinases. When a proteinase cleaves the bait region, a conformational change is induced in the protein which traps the proteinase. The entrapped enzyme remains active against low molecular weight substrates (activity against high molecular weight substrates is greatly reduced). Following cleavage in the bait region a thioester bond is hydrolyzed and mediates the covalent binding of the protein to the proteinase (By similarity). Displays inhibitory activity against chymotrypsin, papain, thermolysin, subtilisin A and, to a lesser extent, elastase but not trypsin. May play an important role during desquamation by inhibiting extracellular proteases.	same
AADACL3	empty	AADACL3 (Arylacetamide Deacetylase-Like 3) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrolase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AADAC.	empty	same
AADAT	This gene encodes a protein that is highly similar to mouse and rat kynurenine aminotransferase II. The rat protein is a homodimer with two transaminase activities. One activity is the transamination of alpha-aminoadipic acid, a final step in the saccaropine pathway which is the major pathway for L-lysine catabolism. The other activity involves the transamination of kynurenine to produce kynurenine acid, the precursor of kynurenic acid which has neuroprotective properties. Several transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2013]	AADAT (Aminoadipate Aminotransferase) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Carbon metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and kynurenine-oxoglutarate transaminase activity.	Transaminase with broad substrate specificity. Has transaminase activity towards aminoadipate, kynurenine, methionine and glutamate. Shows activity also towards tryptophan, aspartate and hydroxykynurenine. Accepts a variety of oxo-acids as amino-group acceptors, with a preference for 2-oxoglutarate, 2-oxocaproic acid, phenylpyruvate and alpha-oxo-gamma-methiol butyric acid. Can also use glyoxylate as amino-group acceptor (in vitro).	same
A1CF	Mammalian apolipoprotein B mRNA undergoes site-specific C to U deamination, which is mediated by a multi-component enzyme complex containing a minimal core composed of APOBEC-1 and a complementation factor encoded by this gene. The gene product has three non-identical RNA recognition motifs and belongs to the hnRNP R family of RNA-binding proteins. It has been proposed that this complementation factor functions as an RNA-binding subunit and docks APOBEC-1 to deaminate the upstream cytidine. Studies suggest that the protein may also be involved in other RNA editing or RNA processing events. Several transcript variants encoding a few different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]	A1CF (APOBEC1 Complementation Factor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with A1CF include anisometropia and amblyopia. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and Formation of editosomes by ADAR proteins. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and double-stranded RNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is HNRNPR.	Essential component of the apolipoprotein B mRNA editing enzyme complex which is responsible for the postranscriptional editing of a CAA codon for Gln to a UAA codon for stop in APOB mRNA. Binds to APOB mRNA and is probably responsible for docking the catalytic subunit, APOBEC1, to the mRNA to allow it to deaminate its target cytosine. The complex also protects the edited APOB mRNA from nonsense-mediated decay.	same
A2M	Alpha-2-macroglobulin is a protease inhibitor and cytokine transporter. It inhibits many proteases, including trypsin, thrombin and collagenase. A2M is implicated in Alzheimer disease (AD) due to its ability to mediate the clearance and degradation of A-beta, the major component of beta-amyloid deposits. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	A2M (Alpha-2-Macroglobulin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with A2M include alpha-2-macroglobulin deficiency and alzheimer disease. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Rho GTPase cycle. GO annotations related to this gene include enzyme binding and growth factor binding. An important paralog of this gene is CD109.	Is able to inhibit all four classes of proteinases by a unique trapping mechanism. This protein has a peptide stretch, called the bait region which contains specific cleavage sites for different proteinases. When a proteinase cleaves the bait region, a conformational change is induced in the protein which traps the proteinase. The entrapped enzyme remains active against low molecular weight substrates (activity against high molecular weight substrates is greatly reduced). Following cleavage in the bait region a thioester bond is hydrolyzed and mediates the covalent binding of the protein to the proteinase	same
AARSD1	empty	AARSD1 (Alanyl-TRNA Synthetase Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleic acid binding and alanine-tRNA ligase activity. An important paralog of this gene is PTGES3L-AARSD1.	Functions in trans to edit the amino acid moiety from incorrectly charged tRNA(Ala).	same
AARS2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the class-II aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase family. Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases play critical roles in mRNA translation by charging tRNAs with their cognate amino acids. The encoded protein is a mitochondrial enzyme that specifically aminoacylates alanyl-tRNA. Mutations in this gene are a cause of combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency 8. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	AARS2 (Alanyl-TRNA Synthetase 2, Mitochondrial) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AARS2 include combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency 8 and leukoencephalopathy, progressive, with ovarian failure. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and tRNA Aminoacylation. GO annotations related to this gene include tRNA binding and alanine-tRNA ligase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AARS.	Catalyzes the attachment of alanine to tRNA(Ala) in a two-step reaction: alanine is first activated by ATP to form Ala-AMP and then transferred to the acceptor end of tRNA(Ala). Also edits incorrectly charged tRNA(Ala) via its editing domain.	same
AASDHPPT	The protein encoded by this gene is similar to Saccharomyces cerevisiae LYS5, which is required for the activation of the alpha-aminoadipate dehydrogenase in the biosynthetic pathway of lysine. Yeast alpha-aminoadipate dehydrogenase converts alpha-biosynthetic-aminoadipate semialdehyde to alpha-aminoadipate. It has been suggested that defects in the human gene result in pipecolic acidemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AASDHPPT (Aminoadipate-Semialdehyde Dehydrogenase-Phosphopantetheinyl Transferase) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include magnesium ion binding and holo-[acyl-carrier-protein] synthase activity.	Catalyzes the post-translational modification of target proteins by phosphopantetheine. Can transfer the 4-phosphopantetheine moiety from coenzyme A to a serine residue of a broad range of acceptors, such as the acyl carrier domain of FASN.	same
A2BP1	The Fox-1 family of RNA-binding proteins is evolutionarily conserved, and regulates tissue-specific alternative splicing in metazoa. Fox-1 recognizes a (U)GCAUG stretch in regulated exons or in flanking introns. The protein binds to the C-terminus of ataxin-2 and may contribute to the restricted pathology of spinocerebellar ataxia type 2 (SCA2). Ataxin-2 is the product of the SCA2 gene which causes familial neurodegenerative diseases. Fox-1 and ataxin-2 are both localized in the trans-Golgi network. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]	RBFOX1 (RNA Binding Protein, Fox-1 Homolog (C. Elegans) 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with RBFOX1 include dengue shock syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and protein C-terminus binding. An important paralog of this gene is RBFOX2.	RNA-binding protein that regulates alternative splicing events by binding to 5-UGCAUGU-3 elements. Regulates alternative splicing of tissue-specific exons and of differentially spliced exons during erythropoiesis.	diff
AASS	This gene encodes a bifunctional enzyme that catalyzes the first two steps in the mammalian lysine degradation pathway. The N-terminal and the C-terminal portions of this enzyme contain lysine-ketoglutarate reductase and saccharopine dehydrogenase activity, respectively, resulting in the conversion of lysine to alpha-aminoadipic semialdehyde. Mutations in this gene are associated with familial hyperlysinemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AASS (Aminoadipate-Semialdehyde Synthase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AASS include saccharopinuria and hyperlysinemia. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include saccharopine dehydrogenase (NAD+, L-glutamate-forming) activity.	Bifunctional enzyme that catalyzes the first two steps in lysine degradation. The N-terminal and the C-terminal contain lysine-ketoglutarate reductase and saccharopine dehydrogenase activity, respectively	same
AASDH	empty	AASDH (Aminoadipate-Semialdehyde Dehydrogenase) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include acid-thiol ligase activity.	Acyl-CoA synthases catalyze the initial reaction in fatty acid metabolism, by forming a thioester with CoA.	same
AATF	The protein encoded by this gene was identified on the basis of its interaction with MAP3K12/DLK, a protein kinase known to be involved in the induction of cell apoptosis. This gene product contains a leucine zipper, which is a characteristic motif of transcription factors, and was shown to exhibit strong transactivation activity when fused to Gal4 DNA binding domain. Overexpression of this gene interfered with MAP3K12 induced apoptosis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AATF (Apoptosis Antagonizing Transcription Factor) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and tau protein binding.	May function as a general inhibitor of the histone deacetylase HDAC1. Binding to the pocket region of RB1 may displace HDAC1 from RB1/E2F complexes, leading to activation of E2F target genes and cell cycle progression. Conversely, displacement of HDAC1 from SP1 bound to the CDKN1A promoter leads to increased expression of this CDK inhibitor and blocks cell cycle progression. Also antagonizes PAWR mediated induction of aberrant amyloid peptide production in Alzheimer disease (presenile and senile dementia), although the molecular basis for this phenomenon has not been described to date.	same
ABAT	4-aminobutyrate aminotransferase (ABAT) is responsible for catabolism of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), an important, mostly inhibitory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system, into succinic semialdehyde. The active enzyme is a homodimer of 50-kD subunits complexed to pyridoxal-5-phosphate. The protein sequence is over 95% similar to the pig protein. GABA is estimated to be present in nearly one-third of human synapses. ABAT in liver and brain is controlled by 2 codominant alleles with a frequency in a Caucasian population of 0.56 and 0.44. The ABAT deficiency phenotype includes psychomotor retardation, hypotonia, hyperreflexia, lethargy, refractory seizures, and EEG abnormalities. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein isoform have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABAT (4-Aminobutyrate Aminotransferase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABAT include gaba-transaminase deficiency and gaba aminotransferase deficiency. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Transmission across Chemical Synapses. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and 4-aminobutyrate transaminase activity.	Catalyzes the conversion of gamma-aminobutyrate and L-beta-aminoisobutyrate to succinate semialdehyde and methylmalonate semialdehyde, respectively. Can also convert delta-aminovalerate and beta-alanine	same
ABCA11P	empty	ABCA11P (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family A (ABC1), Member 11, Pseudogene) is a Pseudogene. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase activity.	empty	same
AANAT	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the acetyltransferase superfamily. It is the penultimate enzyme in melatonin synthesis and controls the night/day rhythm in melatonin production in the vertebrate pineal gland. Melatonin is essential for the function of the circadian clock that influences activity and sleep. This enzyme is regulated by cAMP-dependent phosphorylation that promotes its interaction with 14-3-3 proteins and thus protects the enzyme against proteasomal degradation. This gene may contribute to numerous genetic diseases such as delayed sleep phase syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]	AANAT (Aralkylamine N-Acetyltransferase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AANAT include delayed sleep phase syndrome and idiopathic scoliosis. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include aralkylamine N-acetyltransferase activity.	Controls the night/day rhythm of melatonin production in the pineal gland. Catalyzes the N-acetylation of serotonin into N-acetylserotonin, the penultimate step in the synthesis of melatonin	same
ABCA3	The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intracellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the ABC1 subfamily. Members of the ABC1 subfamily comprise the only major ABC subfamily found exclusively in multicellular eukaryotes. The full transporter encoded by this gene may be involved in development of resistance to xenobiotics and engulfment during programmed cell death. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABCA3 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family A (ABC1), Member 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABCA3 include surfactant metabolism dysfunction, pulmonary, 3 and abca3-related pulmonary surfactant metabolism dysfunction. Among its related pathways are Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds and ABC-family proteins mediated transport. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity and ATPase activity, coupled to transmembrane movement of substances. An important paralog of this gene is ABCA4.	Plays an important role in the formation of pulmonary surfactant, probably by transporting lipids such as cholesterol	same
ABCA6	The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intracellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, and White). This encoded protein is a member of the ABC1 subfamily. Members of the ABC1 subfamily comprise the only major ABC subfamily found exclusively in multicellular eukaryotes. This gene is clustered among 4 other ABC1 family members on 17q24 and may play a role in macrophage lipid homeostasis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABCA6 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family A (ABC1), Member 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds and ABC-family proteins mediated transport. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ABCA4.	Probable transporter which may play a role in macrophage lipid homeostasis	same
ABCA10	The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intracellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, and White). This encoded protein is a member of the ABC1 subfamily. Members of the ABC1 subfamily comprise the only major ABC subfamily found exclusively in multicellular eukaryotes. This gene is clustered among 4 other ABC1 family members on 17q24, but neither the substrate nor the function of this gene is known. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABCA10 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family A (ABC1), Member 10) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds and ABC-family proteins mediated transport. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ABCA4.	Probable transporter which may play a role in macrophage lipid homeostasis	same
ABCA2	The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intracellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the ABC1 subfamily. Members of the ABC1 subfamily comprise the only major ABC subfamily found exclusively in multicellular eukaryotes. This protein is highly expressed in brain tissue and may play a role in macrophage lipid metabolism and neural development. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABCA2 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family A (ABC1), Member 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABCA2 include developmental coordination disorder and neuroma. Among its related pathways are Lysosome and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleotide binding and ATPase activity, coupled to transmembrane movement of substances. An important paralog of this gene is ABCA4.	Probable transporter, its natural substrate has not been found yet. May have a role in macrophage lipid metabolism and neural development	same
ABCA5	The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intracellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, and White). This encoded protein is a member of the ABC1 subfamily. Members of the ABC1 subfamily comprise the only major ABC subfamily found exclusively in multicellular eukaryotes. This gene is clustered among 4 other ABC1 family members on 17q24, but neither the substrate nor the function of this gene is known. Alternative splicing of this gene results in several transcript variants; however, not all variants have been fully described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABCA5 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family A (ABC1), Member 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABCA5 include hypertrichosis terminalis, generalized, with or without gingival hyperplasia. Among its related pathways are ABC-family proteins mediated transport. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ABCA4.	May play a role in the processing of autolysosomes.	same
AARS	The human alanyl-tRNA synthetase (AARS) belongs to a family of tRNA synthases, of the class II enzymes. Class II tRNA synthases evolved early in evolution and are highly conserved. This is reflected by the fact that 498 of the 968-residue polypeptide human AARS shares 41% identity witht the E.coli protein. tRNA synthases are the enzymes that interpret the RNA code and attach specific aminoacids to the tRNAs that contain the cognate trinucleotide anticodons. They consist of a catalytic domain which interacts with the amino acid acceptor-T psi C helix of the tRNA, and a second domain which interacts with the rest of the tRNA structure. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AARS (Alanyl-TRNA Synthetase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AARS include charcot-marie-tooth disease, axonal, type 2n and charcot-marie-tooth neuropathy type 2n. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and tRNA Aminoacylation. GO annotations related to this gene include tRNA binding and aminoacyl-tRNA editing activity. An important paralog of this gene is AARS2.	Catalyzes the attachment of alanine to tRNA(Ala) in a two-step reaction: alanine is first activated by ATP to form Ala-AMP and then transferred to the acceptor end of tRNA(Ala). Also edits incorrectly charged tRNA(Ala) via its editing domain.	same
ABCA7	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the ABC1 subfamily. Members of the ABC1 subfamily comprise the only major ABC subfamily found exclusively in multicellular eukaryotes. This full transporter has been detected predominantly in myelo-lymphatic tissues with the highest expression in peripheral leukocytes, thymus, spleen, and bone marrow. The function of this protein is not yet known; however, the expression pattern suggests a role in lipid homeostasis in cells of the immune system. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABCA7 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family A (ABC1), Member 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds and Cholesterol and Sphingolipids transport / Recycling to plasma membrane in lung (normal and CF). GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity and phospholipid transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is ABCA4.	Plays a role in phagocytosis by macrophages of apoptotic cells. Binds APOA1 and may function in apolipoprotein-mediated phospholipid efflux from cells. May also mediate cholesterol efflux. May regulate cellular ceramide homeostasis during keratinocytes differentiation.	same
ABCA8	The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intracellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the ABC1 subfamily. Members of the ABC1 subfamily comprise the only major ABC subfamily found exclusively in multicellular eukaryotes. The encoded protein may regulate lipid metabolism and be involved in the formation and maintenance of myelin. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2014]	ABCA8 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family A (ABC1), Member 8) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds and ABC-family proteins mediated transport. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase activity, coupled to transmembrane movement of substances. An important paralog of this gene is ABCA4.	ATP-dependent lipophilic drug transporter.	same
ABCA13	In human, the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) family of transmembrane transporters has at least 48 genes and 7 gene subfamilies. This gene is a member of ABC gene subfamily A (ABCA). Genes within the ABCA family typically encode several thousand amino acids. Like other ABC transmembrane transporter proteins, this protein has 12 or more transmembrane alpha-helix domains that likely arrange to form a single central chamber with multiple substrate binding sites. It is also predicted to have two large extracellular domains and two nucleotide binding domains as is typical for ABCA proteins. Alternative splice variants have been described but their biological validity has not been demonstrated.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]	ABCA13 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family A (ABC1), Member 13) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are ABC-family proteins mediated transport. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ABCA4.	empty	same
ABCA4	The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intracellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the ABC1 subfamily. Members of the ABC1 subfamily comprise the only major ABC subfamily found exclusively in multicellular eukaryotes. This protein is a retina-specific ABC transporter with N-retinylidene-PE as a substrate. It is expressed exclusively in retina photoreceptor cells, indicating the gene product mediates transport of an essental molecule across the photoreceptor cell membrane. Mutations in this gene are found in patients diagnosed with Stargardt disease, a form of juvenile-onset macular degeneration. Mutations in this gene are also associated with retinitis pigmentosa-19, cone-rod dystrophy type 3, early-onset severe retinal dystrophy, fundus flavimaculatus, and macular degeneration age-related 2. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABCA4 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family A (ABC1), Member 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABCA4 include stargardt disease 1 and retinitis pigmentosa 19. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity and phospholipid-translocating ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ABCA3.	In the visual cycle, acts as an inward-directed retinoid flipase, retinoid substrates imported by ABCA4 from the extracellular or intradiscal (rod) membrane surfaces to the cytoplasmic membrane surface are all-trans-retinaldehyde (ATR) and N-retinyl-phosphatidyl-ethanolamine (NR-PE). Once transported to the cytoplasmic surface, ATR is reduced to vitamin A by trans-retinol dehydrogenase (tRDH) and then transferred to the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) where it is converted to 11-cis-retinal. May play a role in photoresponse, removing ATR/NR-PE from the extracellular photoreceptor surfaces during bleach recovery.	same
ABCA17P	empty	ABCA17P (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family A (ABC1), Member 17, Pseudogene) is a Pseudogene.	empty	same
ABCB1	The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the MDR/TAP subfamily. Members of the MDR/TAP subfamily are involved in multidrug resistance. The protein encoded by this gene is an ATP-dependent drug efflux pump for xenobiotic compounds with broad substrate specificity. It is responsible for decreased drug accumulation in multidrug-resistant cells and often mediates the development of resistance to anticancer drugs. This protein also functions as a transporter in the blood-brain barrier. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABCB1 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family B (MDR/TAP), Member 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABCB1 include colchicine resistance and inflammatory bowel disease 13. Among its related pathways are MicroRNAs in cancer and Integrated Pancreatic Cancer Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity and xenobiotic-transporting ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ABCB11.	Energy-dependent efflux pump responsible for decreased drug accumulation in multidrug-resistant cells	same
ABCB7	The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the MDR/TAP subfamily. Members of the MDR/TAP subfamily are involved in multidrug resistance as well as antigen presentation. This gene encodes a half-transporter involved in the transport of heme from the mitochondria to the cytosol. With iron/sulfur cluster precursors as its substrates, this protein may play a role in metal homeostasis. Mutations in this gene have been associated with mitochondrial iron accumulation and isodicentric (X)(q13) and sideroblastic anemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2012]	ABCB7 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family B (MDR/TAP), Member 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABCB7 include anemia, sideroblastic, with ataxia and x-linked sideroblastic anemia with ataxia. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase activity, coupled to transmembrane movement of substances and heme transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is ABCB6.	Could be involved in the transport of heme from the mitochondria to the cytosol. Plays a central role in the maturation of cytosolic iron-sulfur (Fe/S) cluster-containing proteins	same
ABCB6	The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the MDR/TAP subfamily. Members of the MDR/TAP subfamily are involved in multidrug resistance as well as antigen presentation. This half-transporter likely plays a role in mitochondrial function. Localized to 2q26, this gene is considered a candidate gene for lethal neonatal metabolic syndrome, a disorder of mitochondrial function. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABCB6 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family B (MDR/TAP), Member 6 (Langereis Blood Group)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABCB6 include microphthalmia, isolated, with coloboma 7 and dyschromatosis universalis hereditaria 3. Among its related pathways are Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds and ABC-family proteins mediated transport. GO annotations related to this gene include heme binding and efflux transmembrane transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is ABCB7.	Binds heme and porphyrins and functions in their ATP-dependent uptake into the mitochondria. Plays a crucial role in heme synthesis.	same
A1BG	The protein encoded by this gene is a plasma glycoprotein of unknown function. The protein shows sequence similarity to the variable regions of some immunoglobulin supergene family member proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	A1BG (Alpha-1-B Glycoprotein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with A1BG include pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. An important paralog of this gene is KIR2DL4.	empty	same
ABCA12	The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intracellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, and White). This encoded protein is a member of the ABC1 subfamily, which is the only major ABC subfamily found exclusively in multicellular eukaryotes. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABCA12 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family A (ABC1), Member 12) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABCA12 include ichthyosis, congenital, autosomal recessive 4a and ichthyosis, autosomal recessive 4b. Among its related pathways are Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds and ABC-family proteins mediated transport. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ABCA4.	Probable transporter involved in lipid homeostasis	same
ABCB9	The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the MDR/TAP subfamily. Members of the MDR/TAP subfamily are involved in multidrug resistance as well as antigen presentation. This family member functions in the translocation of peptides from the cytosol into the lysosomal lumen. Alternative splicing of this gene results in distinct isoforms which are likely to have different substrate specificities. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]	ABCB9 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family B (MDR/TAP), Member 9) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Lysosome and ABC-family proteins mediated transport. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and MHC class I protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is TAP1.	ATP-dependent low-affinity peptide transporter which translocates a broad spectrum of peptides from the cytosol to the lysosomal lumen. Displays a broad peptide length specificity from 6-mer up to at least 59-mer peptides with an optimum of 23-mers. Favors positively charged, aromatic or hydrophobic residues in the N- and C-terminal positions whereas negatively charged residues as well as asparagine and methionine are not favored.	same
ABCB5	ABCB5 belongs to the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter superfamily of integral membrane proteins. These proteins participate in ATP-dependent transmembrane transport of structurally diverse molecules ranging from small ions, sugars, and peptides to more complex organic molecules (Chen et al., 2005 [PubMed 15760339]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	ABCB5 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family B (MDR/TAP), Member 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds and ABC-family proteins mediated transport. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase activity, coupled to transmembrane movement of substances and efflux transmembrane transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is ABCB11.	Drug efflux transporter present in a number of stem cells that acts as a regulator of cellular differentiation. Able to mediate efflux from cells of the rhodamine dye and of the therapeutic drug doxorubicin. Specifically present in limbal stem cells, where it plays a key role in corneal development and repair.	same
ABCB11	The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the MDR/TAP subfamily. Members of the MDR/TAP subfamily are involved in multidrug resistance. The protein encoded by this gene is the major canalicular bile salt export pump in man. Mutations in this gene cause a form of progressive familial intrahepatic cholestases which are a group of inherited disorders with severe cholestatic liver disease from early infancy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABCB11 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family B (MDR/TAP), Member 11) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABCB11 include cholestasis, benign recurrent intrahepatic, 2 and cholestasis, progressive familial intrahepatic 2. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity and sodium-exporting ATPase activity, phosphorylative mechanism. An important paralog of this gene is ABCB1.	Involved in the ATP-dependent secretion of bile salts into the canaliculus of hepatocytes	same
ABCC11	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This ABC full transporter is a member of the MRP subfamily which is involved in multi-drug resistance. The product of this gene participates in physiological processes involving bile acids, conjugated steroids, and cyclic nucleotides. In addition, a SNP in this gene is responsible for determination of human earwax type. This gene and family member ABCC12 are determined to be derived by duplication and are both localized to chromosome 16q12.1. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABCC11 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family C (CFTR/MRP), Member 11) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABCC11 include dubin-johnson syndrome. Among its related pathways are Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds and ABC-family proteins mediated transport. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase activity, coupled to transmembrane movement of substances. An important paralog of this gene is ABCC5.	Participates in physiological processes involving bile acids, conjugated steroids and cyclic nucleotides. Enhances the cellular extrusion of cAMP and cGMP. Stimulates the ATP-dependent uptake of a range of physiological and synthetic lipophilic anions, including the glutathione S-conjugates leukotriene C4 and dinitrophenyl S-glutathione, steroid sulfates such as dehydroepiandrosterone 3-sulfate (DHEAS) and estrone 3-sulfate, glucuronides such as estradiol 17-beta-D-glucuronide (E(2)17betaG), the monoanionic bile acids glycocholate and taurocholate, and methotrexate. Probably functions to secrete earwax.	same
ABCA9	This gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters and the encoded protein contains two transmembrane domains and two nucleotide binding folds. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intracellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, and White). This gene is a member of the ABC1 subfamily and is clustered with four other ABC1 family members on chromosome 17q24. Transcriptional expression of this gene is induced during monocyte differentiation into macrophages and is suppressed by cholesterol import. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABCA9 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family A (ABC1), Member 9) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds and ABC-family proteins mediated transport. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ABCA4.	May play a role in monocyte differentiation and lipid homeostasis.	same
ABCB4	The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the MDR/TAP subfamily. Members of the MDR/TAP subfamily are involved in multidrug resistance as well as antigen presentation. This gene encodes a full transporter and member of the p-glycoprotein family of membrane proteins with phosphatidylcholine as its substrate. The function of this protein has not yet been determined; however, it may involve transport of phospholipids from liver hepatocytes into bile. Alternative splicing of this gene results in several products of undetermined function. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABCB4 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family B (MDR/TAP), Member 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABCB4 include gallbladder disease 1 and cholestasis, progressive familial intrahepatic 3. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase activity, coupled to transmembrane movement of substances and xenobiotic-transporting ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ABCB11.	Mediates ATP-dependent export of organic anions and drugs from the cytoplasm. Hydrolyzes ATP with low efficiency. Not capable of conferring drug resistance. Mediates the translocation of phosphatidylcholine across the canalicular membrane of the hepatocyte	same
ABCA1	The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intracellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the ABC1 subfamily. Members of the ABC1 subfamily comprise the only major ABC subfamily found exclusively in multicellular eukaryotes. With cholesterol as its substrate, this protein functions as a cholesteral efflux pump in the cellular lipid removal pathway. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Tangier's disease and familial high-density lipoprotein deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABCA1 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family A (ABC1), Member 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABCA1 include tangier disease and abca1-related disorders. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and cholesterol binding. An important paralog of this gene is ABCA4.	cAMP-dependent and sulfonylurea-sensitive anion transporter. Key gatekeeper influencing intracellular cholesterol transport	same
AATK	The protein encoded by this gene contains a tyrosine kinase domain at the N-terminus and a proline-rich domain at the C-terminus. This gene is induced during apoptosis, and expression of this gene may be a necessary pre-requisite for the induction of growth arrest and/or apoptosis of myeloid precursor cells. This gene has been shown to produce neuronal differentiation in a neuroblastoma cell line. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]	AATK (Apoptosis-Associated Tyrosine Kinase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AATK include neuroblastoma. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and protein tyrosine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is LMTK2.	May be involved in neuronal differentiation.	same
ABCC1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra-and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This full transporter is a member of the MRP subfamily which is involved in multi-drug resistance. This protein functions as a multispecific organic anion transporter, with oxidized glutatione, cysteinyl leukotrienes, and activated aflatoxin B1 as substrates. This protein also transports glucuronides and sulfate conjugates of steroid hormones and bile salts. Alternatively spliced variants of this gene have been described but their full-length nature is unknown. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]	ABCC1 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family C (CFTR/MRP), Member 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABCC1 include intraocular retinoblastoma and dubin-johnson syndrome. Among its related pathways are Disease and MicroRNAs in cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity and ATPase activity, coupled to transmembrane movement of substances. An important paralog of this gene is ABCC5.	Mediates export of organic anions and drugs from the cytoplasm. Mediates ATP-dependent transport of glutathione and glutathione conjugates, leukotriene C4, estradiol-17-beta-o-glucuronide, methotrexate, antiviral drugs and other xenobiotics. Confers resistance to anticancer drugs. Hydrolyzes ATP with low efficiency.	same
ABCC13	This gene is a member of the superfamily of genes encoding ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, and White). This family member is part of the MRP subfamily, which is involved in multi-drug resistance, but the human locus is now thought to be a pseudogene incapable of encoding a functional ABC protein. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants; however, not all variants have been fully described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABCC13 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family C (CFTR/MRP), Member 13, Pseudogene) is a Pseudogene. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase activity, coupled to transmembrane movement of substances.	empty	same
ABCC5	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the MRP subfamily which is involved in multi-drug resistance. This protein functions in the cellular export of its substrate, cyclic nucleotides. This export contributes to the degradation of phosphodiesterases and possibly an elimination pathway for cyclic nucleotides. Studies show that this protein provides resistance to thiopurine anticancer drugs, 6-mercatopurine and thioguanine, and the anti-HIV drug 9-(2-phosphonylmethoxyethyl)adenine. This protein may be involved in resistance to thiopurines in acute lymphoblastic leukemia and antiretroviral nucleoside analogs in HIV-infected patients. Alternative splicing of this gene has been detected; however, the complete sequence and translation initiation site is unclear. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABCC5 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family C (CFTR/MRP), Member 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABCC5 include lymphoblastic leukemia and dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase activity, coupled to transmembrane movement of substances and organic anion transmembrane transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is ABCC9.	Acts as a multispecific organic anion pump which can transport nucleotide analogs.	same
ABCC6	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). The encoded protein, a member of the MRP subfamily, is involved in multi-drug resistance. Mutations in this gene cause pseudoxanthoma elasticum. Alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different proteins have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABCC6 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family C (CFTR/MRP), Member 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABCC6 include pseudoxanthoma elasticum and arterial calcification, generalized, of infancy, 2. Among its related pathways are Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds and ABC-family proteins mediated transport. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity and ATPase activity, coupled to transmembrane movement of substances. An important paralog of this gene is ABCC5.	Isoform 1: May participate directly in the active transport of drugs into subcellular organelles or influence drug distribution indirectly. Transports glutathione conjugates as leukotriene-c4 (LTC4) and N-ethylmaleimide S-glutathione (NEM-GS).	same
ABCC6P2	empty	ABCC6P2 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family C, Member 6 Pseudogene 2) is a Pseudogene.	empty	same
ABCB8	This nuclear gene encodes a multi-pass membrane protein that is targeted to the mitochondrial inner membrane. The encoded protein is an ATP-dependent transporter that may mediate the passage of organic and inorganic molecules out of the mitochondria. Loss of function of the related gene in mouse results in a disruption of iron homeostasis between the mitochondria and cytosol. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2013]	ABCB8 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family B (MDR/TAP), Member 8) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds and ABC-family proteins mediated transport. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity and ATPase activity, coupled to transmembrane movement of substances. An important paralog of this gene is TAP1.	empty	same
ABCC9	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the MRP subfamily which is involved in multi-drug resistance. This protein is thought to form ATP-sensitive potassium channels in cardiac, skeletal, and vascular and non-vascular smooth muscle. Protein structure suggests a role as the drug-binding channel-modulating subunit of the extra-pancreatic ATP-sensitive potassium channels. Mutations in this gene are associated with cardiomyopathy dilated type 1O. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2011]	ABCC9 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family C (CFTR/MRP), Member 9) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABCC9 include cardiomyopathy, dilated, 1o and atrial fibrillation, familial, 12. Among its related pathways are Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds and Transmission across Chemical Synapses. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity and potassium channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is ABCC5.	Subunit of ATP-sensitive potassium channels (KATP). Can form cardiac and smooth muscle-type KATP channels with KCNJ11. KCNJ11 forms the channel pore while ABCC9 is required for activation and regulation.	same
ABCC12	This gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters and the encoded protein contains two ATP-binding domains and 12 transmembrane regions. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intracellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies: ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, and White. This gene is a member of the MRP subfamily which is involved in multi-drug resistance. This gene and another subfamily member are arranged head-to-tail on chromosome 16q12.1. Increased expression of this gene is associated with breast cancer. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABCC12 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family C (CFTR/MRP), Member 12) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABCC12 include dubin-johnson syndrome and breast cancer. Among its related pathways are ABC-family proteins mediated transport. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase activity, coupled to transmembrane movement of substances. An important paralog of this gene is ABCC5.	Probable transporter.	same
ABCC8	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the MRP subfamily which is involved in multi-drug resistance. This protein functions as a modulator of ATP-sensitive potassium channels and insulin release. Mutations and deficiencies in this protein have been observed in patients with hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia of infancy, an autosomal recessive disorder of unregulated and high insulin secretion. Mutations have also been associated with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus type II, an autosomal dominant disease of defective insulin secretion. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2013]	ABCC8 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family C (CFTR/MRP), Member 8) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABCC8 include hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia, familial, 1 and hypoglycemia of infancy, leucine-sensitive. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include ion channel binding and potassium ion transmembrane transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is ABCC5.	Subunit of the beta-cell ATP-sensitive potassium channel (KATP). Regulator of ATP-sensitive K(+) channels and insulin release.	same
ABCD1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the ALD subfamily, which is involved in peroxisomal import of fatty acids and/or fatty acyl-CoAs in the organelle. All known peroxisomal ABC transporters are half transporters which require a partner half transporter molecule to form a functional homodimeric or heterodimeric transporter. This peroxisomal membrane protein is likely involved in the peroxisomal transport or catabolism of very long chain fatty acids. Defects in this gene have been identified as the underlying cause of adrenoleukodystrophy, an X-chromosome recessively inherited demyelinating disorder of the nervous system. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABCD1 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family D (ALD), Member 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABCD1 include adrenoleukodystrophy and childhood-onset cerebral x-linked adrenoleukodystrophy. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and enzyme binding. An important paralog of this gene is ABCD3.	Probable transporter. The nucleotide-binding fold acts as an ATP-binding subunit with ATPase activity.	same
ABCD2	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the ALD subfamily, which is involved in peroxisomal import of fatty acids and/or fatty acyl-CoAs in the organelle. All known peroxisomal ABC transporters are half transporters which require a partner half transporter molecule to form a functional homodimeric or heterodimeric transporter. The function of this peroxisomal membrane protein is unknown; however this protein is speculated to function as a dimerization partner of ABCD1 and/or other peroxisomal ABC transporters. Mutations in this gene have been observed in patients with adrenoleukodystrophy, a severe demyelinating disease. This gene has been identified as a candidate for a modifier gene, accounting for the extreme variation among adrenoleukodystrophy phenotypes. This gene is also a candidate for a complement group of Zellweger syndrome, a genetically heterogeneous disorder of peroxisomal biogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABCD2 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family D (ALD), Member 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABCD2 include peroxisomal disease. Among its related pathways are Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds and Peroxisome. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and ATPase activity, coupled to transmembrane movement of substances. An important paralog of this gene is ABCD3.	Probable transporter	same
ABCF3	empty	ABCF3 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family F (GCN20), Member 3) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ABCF1.	Displays an antiviral effect against flaviviruses such as west Nile virus (WNV) in the presence of OAS1B.	same
ABCF1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the GCN20 subfamily. Unlike other members of the superfamily, this protein lacks the transmembrane domains which are characteristic of most ABC transporters. This protein may be regulated by tumor necrosis factor-alpha and play a role in enhancement of protein synthesis and the inflammation process. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABCF1 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family F (GCN20), Member 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase activity and translation factor activity, RNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is ABCF3.	Isoform 2 is required for efficient Cap- and IRES-mediated mRNA translation initiation. Isoform 2 is not involved in the ribosome biogenesis.	same
ABCC10	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, and White). This ABC full-transporter is a member of the MRP subfamily which is involved in multi-drug resistance. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]	ABCC10 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family C (CFTR/MRP), Member 10) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds and Tenofovir/Adefovir Pathway, Pharmacokinetics. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase activity, coupled to transmembrane movement of substances.	ATP-dependent transporter probably involved in cellular detoxification through lipophilic anion extrusion.	same
ABCC3	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the MRP subfamily which is involved in multi-drug resistance. The specific function of this protein has not yet been determined; however, this protein may play a role in the transport of biliary and intestinal excretion of organic anions. Alternatively spliced variants which encode different protein isoforms have been described; however, not all variants have been fully characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABCC3 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family C (CFTR/MRP), Member 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABCC3 include cholangiolocellular carcinoma and dubin-johnson syndrome. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase activity, coupled to transmembrane movement of substances and organic anion transmembrane transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is ABCC5.	May act as an inducible transporter in the biliary and intestinal excretion of organic anions. Acts as an alternative route for the export of bile acids and glucuronides from cholestatic hepatocytes (By similarity).	same
ABCG4	The protein encoded by this gene is included in the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the White subfamily and is expressed predominantly in liver tissue. The function has not yet been determined but may involve cholesterol transport. Alternate splice variants have been described but their full length sequences have not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABCG4 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family G (WHITE), Member 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds and ABC-family proteins mediated transport. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ABCG8.	May be involved in macrophage lipid homeostasis	same
ABCC4	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the MRP subfamily which is involved in multi-drug resistance. This family member plays a role in cellular detoxification as a pump for its substrate, organic anions. It may also function in prostaglandin-mediated cAMP signaling in ciliogenesis. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	ABCC4 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family C (CFTR/MRP), Member 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABCC4 include lung cancer. Among its related pathways are Hemostasis and Hemostasis. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase activity, coupled to transmembrane movement of substances and 15-hydroxyprostaglandin dehydrogenase (NAD+) activity. An important paralog of this gene is ABCC5.	May be an organic anion pump relevant to cellular detoxification	same
ABCC2	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the MRP subfamily which is involved in multi-drug resistance. This protein is expressed in the canalicular (apical) part of the hepatocyte and functions in biliary transport. Substrates include anticancer drugs such as vinblastine; therefore, this protein appears to contribute to drug resistance in mammalian cells. Several different mutations in this gene have been observed in patients with Dubin-Johnson syndrome (DJS), an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by conjugated hyperbilirubinemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABCC2 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family C (CFTR/MRP), Member 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABCC2 include dubin-johnson syndrome and fallopian tube cancer. Among its related pathways are Glucose / Energy Metabolism and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include protein domain specific binding and organic anion transmembrane transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is ABCC5.	Mediates hepatobiliary excretion of numerous organic anions. May function as a cellular cisplatin transporter	same
ABHD12B	empty	ABHD12B (Abhydrolase Domain Containing 12B) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include acylglycerol lipase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ABHD12.	empty	same
ABCC6P1	empty	ABCC6P1 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family C, Member 6 Pseudogene 1 (Functional)) is a Pseudogene.	empty	same
ABCG5	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the White subfamily. The protein encoded by this gene functions as a half-transporter to limit intestinal absorption and promote biliary excretion of sterols. It is expressed in a tissue-specific manner in the liver, colon, and intestine. This gene is tandemly arrayed on chromosome 2, in a head-to-head orientation with family member ABCG8. Mutations in this gene may contribute to sterol accumulation and atheroschlerosis, and have been observed in patients with sitosterolemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABCG5 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family G (WHITE), Member 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABCG5 include sitosterolemia and aortic atherosclerosis. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include protein heterodimerization activity and cholesterol transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is ABCG8.	Transporter that appears to play an indispensable role in the selective transport of the dietary cholesterol in and out of the enterocytes and in the selective sterol excretion by the liver into bile	same
ABCE1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the OABP subfamily. Alternatively referred to as the RNase L inhibitor, this protein functions to block the activity of ribonuclease L. Activation of ribonuclease L leads to inhibition of protein synthesis in the 2-5A/RNase L system, the central pathway for viral interferon action. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABCE1 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family E (OABP), Member 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABCE1 include hiv-1. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and iron-sulfur cluster binding.	Antagonizes the binding of 2-5A (5-phosphorylated 2,5-linked oligoadenylates) by RNase L through direct interaction with RNase L and therefore inhibits its endoribonuclease activity. May play a central role in the regulation of mRNA turnover. Antagonizes the anti-viral effect of the interferon-regulated 2-5A/RNase L pathway. May act as a chaperone for post-translational events during HIV-1 capsid assembly.	same
ABCD3	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the ALD subfamily, which is involved in peroxisomal import of fatty acids and/or fatty acyl-CoAs in the organelle. All known peroxisomal ABC transporters are half transporters which require a partner half transporter molecule to form a functional homodimeric or heterodimeric transporter. This peroxisomal membrane protein likely plays an important role in peroxisome biogenesis. Mutations have been associated with some forms of Zellweger syndrome, a heterogeneous group of peroxisome assembly disorders. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABCD3 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family D (ALD), Member 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABCD3 include zellweger syndrome and peroxisomal disease. Among its related pathways are Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds and Peroxisome. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and ATPase activity, coupled to transmembrane movement of substances. An important paralog of this gene is ABCD1.	Probable transporter. The nucleotide-binding fold acts as an ATP-binding subunit with ATPase activity.	same
ABCD4	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the ALD subfamily, which is involved in peroxisomal import of fatty acids and/or fatty acyl-CoAs in the organelle. All known peroxisomal ABC transporters are half transporters which require a partner half transporter molecule to form a functional homodimeric or heterodimeric transporter. The function of this peroxisomal membrane protein is unknown. However, it is speculated that it may function as a heterodimer for another peroxisomal ABC transporter and, therefore, may modify the adrenoleukodystrophy phenotype. It may also play a role in the process of peroxisome biogenesis. Alternative splicing results in at least two different transcript variants, one which is protein-coding and one which is probably not protein-coding. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABCD4 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family D (ALD), Member 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABCD4 include methylmalonic aciduria and homocystinuria, cblj type and cbij. Among its related pathways are Peroxisome and ABC-family proteins mediated transport. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase activity, coupled to transmembrane movement of substances. An important paralog of this gene is ABCD3.	May be involved in intracellular processing of vitamin B12 (cobalamin). Could play a role in the lysosomal release of vitamin B12 into the cytoplasm.	same
ABHD14B	empty	ABHD14B (Abhydrolase Domain Containing 14B) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrolase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ABHD14A.	Has hydrolase activity towards p-nitrophenyl butyrate (in vitro). May activate transcription.	same
ABCF2	This gene encodes a member of the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter superfamily. ATP-binding casette proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intracellular membranes. Alterations in this gene may be involved in cancer progression. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 3 and 7. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]	ABCF2 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family F (GCN20), Member 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABCF2 include cystic fibrosis. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity and ATPase activity.	empty	same
ABHD14A	empty	ABHD14A (Abhydrolase Domain Containing 14A) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrolase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ABHD14B.	Possible role in granule neuron development.	same
ABCG8	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the White subfamily. The protein encoded by this gene functions to exclude non-cholesterol sterol entry at the intestinal level, promote excretion of cholesterol and sterols into bile, and to facilitate transport of sterols back into the intestinal lumen. It is expressed in a tissue-specific manner in the liver, intestine, and gallbladder. This gene is tandemly arrayed on chromosome 2, in a head-to-head orientation with family member ABCG5. Mutations in this gene may contribute to sterol accumulation and atherosclerosis, and have been observed in patients with sitosterolemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABCG8 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family G (WHITE), Member 8) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABCG8 include gallbladder disease 4 and sitosterolemia. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include protein heterodimerization activity and cholesterol transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is ABCG2.	Transporter that appears to play an indispensable role in the selective transport of the dietary cholesterol in and out of the enterocytes and in the selective sterol excretion by the liver into bile	same
ABHD11	This gene encodes a protein containing an alpha/beta hydrolase fold domain. This gene is deleted in Williams syndrome, a multisystem developmental disorder caused by the deletion of contiguous genes at 7q11.23. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described, but their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABHD11 (Abhydrolase Domain Containing 11) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABHD11 include williams-beuren syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrolase activity.	empty	same
ABHD3	This gene encodes a protein containing an alpha/beta hydrolase fold, which is a catalytic domain found in a very wide range of enzymes. The function of this protein has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABHD3 (Abhydrolase Domain Containing 3) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ABHD1.	Phospholipase that may play a role in phospholipids remodeling. May selectively cleave myristate (C14)-containing phosphatidylcholines through its predominant phospholipase 1 activity, cleaving preferentially acyl groups in sn1 position. In parallel, may have a minor phospholipase 2 activity acting on acyl groups in position sn2. In addition to (C14)-containing phosphatidylcholines, may also act on other medium-chain-containing and oxidatively truncated phospholipids.	same
ABCG1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the White subfamily. It is involved in macrophage cholesterol and phospholipids transport, and may regulate cellular lipid homeostasis in other cell types. Six alternative splice variants have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABCG1 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family G (WHITE), Member 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABCG1 include tangier disease and sitosterolemia. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is ABCG8.	Transporter involved in macrophage lipid homeostasis. Is an active component of the macrophage lipid export complex. Could also be involved in intracellular lipid transport processes. The role in cellular lipid homeostasis may not be limited to macrophages	same
ABCG2	The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is included in the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the White subfamily. Alternatively referred to as a breast cancer resistance protein, this protein functions as a xenobiotic transporter which may play a major role in multi-drug resistance. It likely serves as a cellular defense mechanism in response to mitoxantrone and anthracycline exposure. Significant expression of this protein has been observed in the placenta, which may suggest a potential role for this molecule in placenta tissue. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]	ABCG2 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family G (WHITE), Member 2 (Junior Blood Group)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABCG2 include erythroplakia and choriocarcinoma. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Glucose / Energy Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and ATPase activity, coupled to transmembrane movement of substances. An important paralog of this gene is ABCG8.	High-capacity urate exporter functioning in both renal and extrarenal urate excretion. Plays a role in porphyrin homeostasis as it is able to mediates the export of protoporhyrin IX (PPIX) both from mitochondria to cytosol and from cytosol to extracellular space, and cellular export of hemin, and heme. Xenobiotic transporter that may play an important role in the exclusion of xenobiotics from the brain. Appears to play a major role in the multidrug resistance phenotype of several cancer cell lines. Implicated in the efflux of numerous drugs and xenobiotics: mitoxantrone, the photosensitizer pheophorbide, camptothecin, methotrexate, azidothymidine (AZT), and the anthracyclines daunorubicin and doxorubicin.	same
ABHD12	This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of 2-arachidonoyl glycerol (2-AG), the main endocannabinoid lipid transmitter that acts on cannabinoid receptors, CB1 and CB2. The endocannabinoid system is involved in a wide range of physiological processes, including neurotransmission, mood, appetite, pain appreciation, addiction behavior, and inflammation. Mutations in this gene are associated with the neurodegenerative disease, PHARC (polyneuropathy, hearing loss, ataxia, retinitis pigmentosa, and cataract), resulting from an inborn error of endocannabinoid metabolism. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]	ABHD12 (Abhydrolase Domain Containing 12) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABHD12 include polyneuropathy, hearing loss, ataxia, retinitis pigmentosa, and cataract and polyneuropathy. Among its related pathways are triacylglycerol degradation. GO annotations related to this gene include acylglycerol lipase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ABHD12B.	Lysophosphatidylserine (LPS) lipase that plays a key role in the central nervous system. Represents a major LPS lipase in the brain (By similarity). May also have a 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) hydrolase activity and act as a regulator of endocannabinoid signaling pathways.	same
ABHD1	This gene is a member of the AB hydrolase superfamily and encodes a protein with an alpha/beta hydrolase fold. This domain is common to a number of hydrolytic enzymes of widely differing phylogenetic origins and catalytic functions. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABHD1 (Abhydrolase Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ABHD2.	empty	same
ABHD6	empty	ABHD6 (Abhydrolase Domain Containing 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Circadian entrainment and triacylglycerol degradation. GO annotations related to this gene include acylglycerol lipase activity.	Lipase that preferentially hydrolysis medium-chain saturated monoacylglycerols including 2-arachidonoylglycerol (PubMed:22969151). Through 2-arachidonoylglycerol degradation may regulate endocannabinoid signaling pathways. May also have a lysophosphatidyl lipase activity with a preference for lysophosphatidylglycerol among other lysophospholipids (By similarity).	same
ABHD15	empty	ABHD15 (Abhydrolase Domain Containing 15) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ABHD1.	empty	same
ABI2	empty	ABI2 (Abl-Interactor 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Regulation of actin cytoskeleton and Regulation of actin cytoskeleton. GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin protein ligase binding and kinase binding. An important paralog of this gene is ABI3.	May act in regulation of cell growth and transformation by interacting with nonreceptor tyrosine kinases ABL1 and/or ABL2. Part of the WAVE complex that regulates lamellipodia formation. The WAVE complex regulates actin filament reorganization via its interaction with the Arp2/3 complex. Regulates ABL1/c-Abl-mediated phosphorylation of MENA.	same
ABHD5	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a large family of proteins defined by an alpha/beta hydrolase fold, and contains three sequence motifs that correspond to a catalytic triad found in the esterase/lipase/thioesterase subfamily. It differs from other members of this subfamily in that its putative catalytic triad contains an asparagine instead of the serine residue. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Chanarin-Dorfman syndrome, a triglyceride storage disease with impaired long-chain fatty acid oxidation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABHD5 (Abhydrolase Domain Containing 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABHD5 include chanarin-dorfman syndrome and neutral lipid storage disease. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include triglyceride lipase activity and lysophosphatidic acid acyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ABHD4.	Lysophosphatidic acid acyltransferase which functions in phosphatidic acid biosynthesis. May regulate the cellular storage of triacylglycerol through activation of the phospholipase PNPLA2. Involved in keratinocyte differentiation.	same
ABHD8	This gene is upstream of, and in a head-to-head orientation with the gene for the mitochondrial ribosomal protein L34. The predicted protein contains alpha/beta hydrolase fold and secretory lipase domains. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABHD8 (Abhydrolase Domain Containing 8) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrolase activity.	empty	same
ABHD13	empty	ABHD13 (Abhydrolase Domain Containing 13) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrolase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ABHD17B.	empty	same
ABLIM1	This gene encodes a cytoskeletal LIM protein that binds to actin filaments via a domain that is homologous to erythrocyte dematin. LIM domains, found in over 60 proteins, play key roles in the regulation of developmental pathways. LIM domains also function as protein-binding interfaces, mediating specific protein-protein interactions. The protein encoded by this gene could mediate such interactions between actin filaments and cytoplasmic targets. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABLIM1 (Actin Binding LIM Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are L1CAM interactions and L1CAM interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding. An important paralog of this gene is AJUBA.	May act as scaffold protein (By similarity). May play a role in the development of the retina. Has been suggested to play a role in axon guidance.	same
ABI3	This gene encodes a member of an adaptor protein family. Members of this family encode proteins containing a homeobox homology domain, proline rich region and Src-homology 3 (SH3) domain, and are components of the Abi/WAVE complex which regulates actin polymerization. The encoded protein inhibits ectopic metastasis of tumor cells as well as cell migration. This may be accomplished through interaction with p21-activated kinase. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2013]	ABI3 (ABI Family, Member 3) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ABI2.	May inhibit tumor metastasis (By similarity). In vitro, reduces cell motility.	same
ABO	This gene encodes proteins related to the first discovered blood group system, ABO. Which allele is present in an individual determines the blood group. The 'O' blood group is caused by a deletion of guanine-258 near the N-terminus of the protein which results in a frameshift and translation of an almost entirely different protein. Individuals with the A, B, and AB alleles express glycosyltransferase activities that convert the H antigen into the A or B antigen. Other minor alleles have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABO (ABO Blood Group (Transferase A, Alpha 1-3-N-Acetylgalactosaminyltransferase; Transferase B, Alpha 1-3-Galactosyltransferase)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABO include blood group incompatibility and malaria. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Glycosphingolipid biosynthesis - lacto and neolacto series. GO annotations related to this gene include glycoprotein-fucosylgalactoside alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase activity and fucosylgalactoside 3-alpha-galactosyltransferase activity.	This protein is the basis of the ABO blood group system. The histo-blood group ABO involves three carbohydrate antigens: A, B, and H. A, B, and AB individuals express a glycosyltransferase activity that converts the H antigen to the A antigen (by addition of UDP-GalNAc) or to the B antigen (by addition of UDP-Gal), whereas O individuals lack such activity	same
ABI1	This gene encodes a member of the Abelson-interactor family of adaptor proteins. These proteins facilitate signal transduction as components of several multiprotein complexes, and regulate actin polymerization and cytoskeletal remodeling through interactions with Abelson tyrosine kinases. The encoded protein plays a role in macropinocytosis as a component of the WAVE2 complex, and also forms a complex with EPS8 and SOS1 that mediates signal transduction from Ras to Rac. This gene may play a role in the progression of several malignancies including melanoma, colon cancer and breast cancer, and a t(10;11) chromosomal translocation involving this gene and the MLL gene has been associated with acute myeloid leukemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene, and a pseudogene of this gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 14. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]	ABI1 (Abl-Interactor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABI1 include myeloid leukemia and breast cancer. Among its related pathways are Fcgamma receptor (FCGR) dependent phagocytosis and Development FGFR signaling pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include cytoskeletal protein binding and protein tyrosine kinase activator activity. An important paralog of this gene is ABI2.	May act in negative regulation of cell growth and transformation by interacting with nonreceptor tyrosine kinases ABL1 and/or ABL2. May play a role in regulation of EGF-induced Erk pathway activation. Involved in cytoskeletal reorganization and EGFR signaling. Together with EPS8 participates in transduction of signals from Ras to Rac. In vitro, a trimeric complex of ABI1, EPS8 and SOS1 exhibits Rac specific guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) activity and ABI1 seems to act as an adapter in the complex. Regulates ABL1/c-Abl-mediated phosphorylation of ENAH. Recruits WASF1 to lamellipodia and there seems to regulate WASF1 protein level. In brain, seems to regulate the dendritic outgrowth and branching as well as to determine the shape and number of synaptic contacts of developing neurons.	same
ABHD4	empty	ABHD4 (Abhydrolase Domain Containing 4) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrolase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ABHD5.	Lysophospholipase selective for N-acyl phosphatidylethanolamine (NAPE). Contributes to the biosynthesis of N-acyl ethanolamines, including the endocannabinoid anandamide by hydrolyzing the sn-1 and sn-2 acyl chains from N-acyl phosphatidylethanolamine (NAPE) generating glycerophospho-N-acyl ethanolamine (GP-NAE), an intermediate for N-acyl ethanolamine biosynthesis. Hydrolyzes substrates bearing saturated, monounsaturated, polyunsaturated N-acyl chains. Shows no significant activity towards other lysophospholipids, including lysophosphatidylcholine, lysophosphatidylethanolamine and lysophosphatidylserine (By similarity).	same
ABR	This gene encodes a protein that is similar to the protein encoded by the breakpoint cluster region gene located on chromosome 22. The protein encoded by this gene contains a GTPase-activating protein domain, a domain found in members of the Rho family of GTP-binding proteins. Functional studies in mice determined that this protein plays a role in vestibular morphogenesis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been reported for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]	ABR (Active BCR-Related) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABR include enamel erosion. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and Rho guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is SYDE1.	GTPase-activating protein for RAC and CDC42. Promotes the exchange of RAC or CDC42-bound GDP by GTP, thereby activating them	same
ABP1	empty	empty	empty	same
ABLIM2	empty	ABLIM2 (Actin Binding LIM Protein Family, Member 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are L1CAM interactions and L1CAM interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding. An important paralog of this gene is AJUBA.	May act as scaffold protein. May stimulate ABRA activity and ABRA-dependent SRF transcriptional activity.	same
ABHD10	This gene encodes a mitochondrially-localized enzyme that acts in liver cells as a hydrolase. The encoded protein removes glucuronide from mycophenolic acid acyl-glucuronide. There is a pseudogene for this gene on chromosome 6. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]	ABHD10 (Abhydrolase Domain Containing 10) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrolase activity, hydrolyzing O-glycosyl compounds.	Catalyzes the deglucuronidation of mycophenolic acid acyl-glucuronide, a metabolite of the immunosuppressant drug mycophenolate.	same
ABL1	This gene is a protooncogene that encodes a protein tyrosine kinase involved in a variety of cellular processes, including cell division, adhesion, differentiation, and response to stress. The activity of the protein is negatively regulated by its SH3 domain, whereby deletion of the region encoding this domain results in an oncogene. The ubiquitously expressed protein has DNA-binding activity that is regulated by CDC2-mediated phosphorylation, suggesting a cell cycle function. This gene has been found fused to a variety of translocation partner genes in various leukemias, most notably the t(9;22) translocation that results in a fusion with the 5' end of the breakpoint cluster region gene (BCR; MIM:151410). Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants, which contain alternative first exons that are spliced to the remaining common exons. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2014]	ABL1 (ABL Proto-Oncogene 1, Non-Receptor Tyrosine Kinase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABL1 include leukemia, chronic myeloid and precursor b-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Among its related pathways are Ras signaling pathway and Pathways in cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include magnesium ion binding and SH3 domain binding. An important paralog of this gene is ABL2.	Non-receptor tyrosine-protein kinase that plays a role in many key processes linked to cell growth and survival such as cytoskeleton remodeling in response to extracellular stimuli, cell motility and adhesion, receptor endocytosis, autophagy, DNA damage response and apoptosis. Coordinates actin remodeling through tyrosine phosphorylation of proteins controlling cytoskeleton dynamics like WASF3 (involved in branch formation); ANXA1 (involved in membrane anchoring); DBN1, DBNL, CTTN, RAPH1 and ENAH (involved in signaling); or MAPT and PXN (microtubule-binding proteins). Phosphorylation of WASF3 is critical for the stimulation of lamellipodia formation and cell migration. Involved in the regulation of cell adhesion and motility through phosphorylation of key regulators of these processes such as BCAR1, CRK, CRKL, DOK1, EFS or NEDD9. Phosphorylates multiple receptor tyrosine kinases and more particularly promotes endocytosis of EGFR, facilitates the formation of neuromuscular synapses through MUSK, inhibits PDGFRB-mediated chemotaxis and modulates the endocytosis of activated B-cell receptor complexes. Other substrates which are involved in endocytosis regulation are the caveolin (CAV1) and RIN1. Moreover, ABL1 regulates the CBL family of ubiquitin ligases that drive receptor down-regulation and actin remodeling. Phosphorylation of CBL leads to increased EGFR stability. Involved in late-stage autophagy by regulating positively the trafficking and function of lysosomal components. ABL1 targets to mitochondria in response to oxidative stress and thereby mediates mitochondrial dysfunction and cell death. ABL1 is also translocated in the nucleus where it has DNA-binding activity and is involved in DNA-damage response and apoptosis. Many substrates are known mediators of DNA repair: DDB1, DDB2, ERCC3, ERCC6, RAD9A, RAD51, RAD52 or WRN. Activates the proapoptotic pathway when the DNA damage is too severe to be repaired. Phosphorylates TP73, a primary regulator for this type of damage-induced apoptosis. Phosphorylates the caspase CASP9 on Tyr-153 and regulates its processing in the apoptotic response to DNA damage. Phosphorylates PSMA7 that leads to an inhibition of proteasomal activity and cell cycle transition blocks. ABL1 acts also as a regulator of multiple pathological signaling cascades during infection. Several known tyrosine-phosphorylated microbial proteins have been identified as ABL1 substrates. This is the case of A36R of Vaccinia virus, Tir (translocated intimin receptor) of pathogenic E.coli and possibly Citrobacter, CagA (cytotoxin-associated gene A) of H.pylori, or AnkA (ankyrin repeat-containing protein A) of A.phagocytophilum. Pathogens can highjack ABL1 kinase signaling to reorganize the host actin cytoskeleton for multiple purposes, like facilitating intracellular movement and host cell exit. Finally, functions as its own regulator through autocatalytic activity as well as through phosphorylation of its inhibitor, ABI1.	same
ABRA	empty	ABRA (Actin-Binding Rho Activating Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABRA include malaria. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding and transcription coactivator activity.	Acts as an activator of serum response factor (SRF)-dependent transcription possibly by inducing nuclear translocation of MKL1 or MKL2 and through a mechanism requiring Rho-actin signaling.	same
ABL2	This gene encodes a member of the Abelson family of nonreceptor tyrosine protein kinases. The protein is highly similar to the c-abl oncogene 1 protein, including the tyrosine kinase, SH2 and SH3 domains, and it plays a role in cytoskeletal rearrangements through its C-terminal F-actin- and microtubule-binding sequences. This gene is expressed in both normal and tumor cells, and is involved in translocation with the ets variant 6 gene in leukemia. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different protein isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]	ABL2 (ABL Proto-Oncogene 2, Non-Receptor Tyrosine Kinase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABL2 include leukemia. Among its related pathways are Ras signaling pathway and L1CAM interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include magnesium ion binding and protein tyrosine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is FRK.	Non-receptor tyrosine-protein kinase that plays an ABL1-overlapping role in key processes linked to cell growth and survival such as cytoskeleton remodeling in response to extracellular stimuli, cell motility and adhesion and receptor endocytosis. Coordinates actin remodeling through tyrosine phosphorylation of proteins controlling cytoskeleton dynamics like MYH10 (involved in movement); CTTN (involved in signaling); or TUBA1 and TUBB (microtubule subunits). Binds directly F-actin and regulates actin cytoskeletal structure through its F-actin-bundling activity. Involved in the regulation of cell adhesion and motility through phosphorylation of key regulators of these processes such as CRK, CRKL, DOK1 or ARHGAP35. Adhesion-dependent phosphorylation of ARHGAP35 promotes its association with RASA1, resulting in recruitment of ARHGAP35 to the cell periphery where it inhibits RHO. Phosphorylates multiple receptor tyrosine kinases like PDGFRB and other substrates which are involved in endocytosis regulation such as RIN1. In brain, may regulate neurotransmission by phosphorylating proteins at the synapse. ABL2 acts also as a regulator of multiple pathological signaling cascades during infection. Pathogens can highjack ABL2 kinase signaling to reorganize the host actin cytoskeleton for multiple purposes, like facilitating intracellular movement and host cell exit. Finally, functions as its own regulator through autocatalytic activity as well as through phosphorylation of its inhibitor, ABI1.	same
ABT1	Basal transcription of genes by RNA polymerase II requires the interaction of TATA-binding protein (TBP) with the core region of class II promoters. Studies in mouse suggest that the protein encoded by this gene likely activates basal transcription from class II promoters by interaction with TBP and the class II promoter DNA. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABT1 (Activator Of Basal Transcription 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ABT1 include roberts syndrome and neuronal intranuclear inclusion disease. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and transcription coactivator activity.	Could be a novel TATA-binding protein (TBP) which can function as a basal transcription activator. Can act as a regulator of basal transcription for class II genes (By similarity).	same
ACAA2	The encoded protein catalyzes the last step of the mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation spiral. Unlike most mitochondrial matrix proteins, it contains a non-cleavable amino-terminal targeting signal. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACAA2 (Acetyl-CoA Acyltransferase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACAA2 include akinetic mutism and ketothiolase deficiency. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Valine, leucine and isoleucine degradation. GO annotations related to this gene include acetyl-CoA C-acyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACAT2.	Abolishes BNIP3-mediated apoptosis and mitochondrial damage.	same
ACAD10	This gene encodes a member of the acyl-CoA dehydrogenase family of enzymes (ACADs), which participate in the beta-oxidation of fatty acids in mitochondria. The encoded enzyme contains a hydrolase domain at the N-terminal portion, a serine/threonine protein kinase catlytic domain in the central region, and a conserved ACAD domain at the C-terminus. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been described, but the full-length nature of some of these variants has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]	ACAD10 (Acyl-CoA Dehydrogenase Family, Member 10) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrolase activity and acyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACAD8.	Acyl-CoA dehydrogenase only active with R- and S-2-methyl-C15-CoA.	same
ABI3BP	empty	ABI3BP (ABI Family, Member 3 (NESH) Binding Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include heparin binding and collagen binding. An important paralog of this gene is FNDC1.	empty	same
ACAA1	This gene encodes an enzyme operative in the beta-oxidation system of the peroxisomes. Deficiency of this enzyme leads to pseudo-Zellweger syndrome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACAA1 (Acetyl-CoA Acyltransferase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACAA1 include thiolase deficiency and ketothiolase deficiency. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include acetyl-CoA C-acyltransferase activity and palmitoyl-CoA oxidase activity.	empty	same
ABTB2	empty	ABTB2 (Ankyrin Repeat And BTB (POZ) Domain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein heterodimerization activity. An important paralog of this gene is BTBD11.	May be involved in the initiation of hepatocyte growth.	same
ACACA	Acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC) is a complex multifunctional enzyme system. ACC is a biotin-containing enzyme which catalyzes the carboxylation of acetyl-CoA to malonyl-CoA, the rate-limiting step in fatty acid synthesis. There are two ACC forms, alpha and beta, encoded by two different genes. ACC-alpha is highly enriched in lipogenic tissues. The enzyme is under long term control at the transcriptional and translational levels and under short term regulation by the phosphorylation/dephosphorylation of targeted serine residues and by allosteric transformation by citrate or palmitoyl-CoA. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants divergent in the 5' sequence and encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACACA (Acetyl-CoA Carboxylase Alpha) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACACA include acetyl-coa carboxylase deficiency and multiple carboxylase deficiency. Among its related pathways are Disease and Regulation of Cholesterol Biosynthesis by SREBP (SREBF). GO annotations related to this gene include biotin carboxylase activity and acetyl-CoA carboxylase activity.	Catalyzes the rate-limiting reaction in the biogenesis of long-chain fatty acids. Carries out three functions: biotin carboxyl carrier protein, biotin carboxylase and carboxyltransferase.	same
ABLIM3	The LIM domain is a double zinc finger structure that promotes protein-protein interactions. LIM domain proteins, such as ABLIM3, play roles in embryonic development, cell lineage determination, and cancer (Krupp et al., 2006 [PubMed 16328021]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	ABLIM3 (Actin Binding LIM Protein Family, Member 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are L1CAM interactions and L1CAM interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding. An important paralog of this gene is AJUBA.	May act as scaffold protein. May stimulate ABRA activity and ABRA-dependent SRF transcriptional activity.	same
ACADM	This gene encodes the medium-chain specific (C4 to C12 straight chain) acyl-Coenzyme A dehydrogenase. The homotetramer enzyme catalyzes the initial step of the mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation pathway. Defects in this gene cause medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency, a disease characterized by hepatic dysfunction, fasting hypoglycemia, and encephalopathy, which can result in infantile death. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACADM (Acyl-CoA Dehydrogenase, C-4 To C-12 Straight Chain) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACADM include acyl-coa dehydrogenase, medium chain, deficiency of and medium-chain acyl-coenzyme a dehydrogenase deficiency. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and acyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACAD8.	This enzyme is specific for acyl chain lengths of 4 to 16	same
ACAD8	This gene encodes a member of the acyl-CoA dehydrogenase family of enzymes that catalyze the dehydrogenation of acyl-CoA derivatives in the metabolism of fatty acids or branch chained amino acids. The encoded protein is a mitochondrial enzyme that functions in catabolism of the branched-chain amino acid valine. Defects in this gene are the cause of isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]	ACAD8 (Acyl-CoA Dehydrogenase Family, Member 8) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACAD8 include isobutyryl-coa dehydrogenase deficiency and 2-methylbutyrylglycinuria. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include flavin adenine dinucleotide binding. An important paralog of this gene is ACADSB.	Has very high activity toward isobutyryl-CoA. Is an isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase that functions in valine catabolism. Plays a role in transcriptional coactivation within the ARC complex.	same
ACACB	Acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC) is a complex multifunctional enzyme system. ACC is a biotin-containing enzyme which catalyzes the carboxylation of acetyl-CoA to malonyl-CoA, the rate-limiting step in fatty acid synthesis. ACC-beta is thought to control fatty acid oxidation by means of the ability of malonyl-CoA to inhibit carnitine-palmitoyl-CoA transferase I, the rate-limiting step in fatty acid uptake and oxidation by mitochondria. ACC-beta may be involved in the regulation of fatty acid oxidation, rather than fatty acid biosynthesis. There is evidence for the presence of two ACC-beta isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACACB (Acetyl-CoA Carboxylase Beta) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACACB include biotin deficiency. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include biotin carboxylase activity and acetyl-CoA carboxylase activity.	Catalyzes the ATP-dependent carboxylation of acetyl-CoA to malonyl-CoA. Carries out three functions: biotin carboxyl carrier protein, biotin carboxylase and carboxyltransferase. Involved in inhibition of fatty acid and glucose oxidation and enhancement of fat storage (By similarity). May play a role in regulation of mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation through malonyl-CoA-dependent inhibition of carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1 (By similarity).	same
ACAN	This gene is a member of the aggrecan/versican proteoglycan family. The encoded protein is an integral part of the extracellular matrix in cartilagenous tissue and it withstands compression in cartilage. Mutations in this gene may be involved in skeletal dysplasia and spinal degeneration. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms have been observed in this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACAN (Aggrecan) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACAN include spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia, kimberley type and spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia, aggrecan type. Among its related pathways are Disease and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding and hyaluronic acid binding. An important paralog of this gene is HAPLN1.	This proteoglycan is a major component of extracellular matrix of cartilagenous tissues. A major function of this protein is to resist compression in cartilage. It binds avidly to hyaluronic acid via an N-terminal globular region	same
ABHD2	This gene encodes a protein containing an alpha/beta hydrolase fold, which is a catalytic domain found in a very wide range of enzymes. The function of this protein has not been determined. Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants encoding the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABHD2 (Abhydrolase Domain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ABHD1.	May play a role in smooth muscle cells migration.	same
ACAP3	empty	ACAP3 (ArfGAP With Coiled-Coil, Ankyrin Repeat And PH Domains 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Endocytosis. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is ASAP3.	GTPase-activating protein for the ADP ribosylation factor family.	same
ACBD5	This gene encodes a member of the acyl-Coenzyme A binding protein family, known to function in the transport and distribution of long chain acyl-Coenzyme A in cells. This gene may play a role in the differentiation of megakaryocytes and formation of platelets. A related protein in yeast is involved in autophagy of peroxisomes. A mutation in this gene has been associated with autosomal dominant thrombocytopenia. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]	ACBD5 (Acyl-CoA Binding Domain Containing 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACBD5 include thrombocytopenia. GO annotations related to this gene include lipid binding and fatty-acyl-CoA binding. An important paralog of this gene is ACBD4.	Acyl-CoA binding protein which acts as the peroxisome receptor for pexophagy but is dispensable for aggrephagy and nonselective autophagy. Binds medium- and long-chain acyl-CoA esters.	same
ACAP1	empty	ACAP1 (ArfGAP With Coiled-Coil, Ankyrin Repeat And PH Domains 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Endocytosis and Arf6 signaling events. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is ASAP3.	GTPase-activating protein (GAP) for ADP ribosylation factor 6 (ARF6) required for clathrin-dependent export of proteins from recycling endosomes to trans-Golgi network and cell surface. Required for regulated export of ITGB1 from recycling endosomes to the cell surface and ITGB1-dependent cell migration.	same
ACAD9	This gene encodes a member of the acyl-CoA dehydrogenase family. Members of this family of proteins localize to the mitochondria and catalyze the rate-limiting step in the beta-oxidation of fatty acyl-CoA. The encoded protein is specifically active toward palmitoyl-CoA and long-chain unsaturated substrates. Mutations in this gene cause acyl-CoA dehydrogenase family member type 9 deficiency. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]	ACAD9 (Acyl-CoA Dehydrogenase Family, Member 9) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACAD9 include acad9 deficiency and acyl-coa dehydrogenase 9 deficiency. Among its related pathways are Glucose / Energy Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include flavin adenine dinucleotide binding and acyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACAD8.	Required for mitochondrial complex I assembly (PubMed:20816094, PubMed:24158852). Has a dehydrogenase activity on palmitoyl-CoA (C16:0) and stearoyl-CoA (C18:0). It is three times more active on palmitoyl-CoA than on stearoyl-CoA. However, it does not play a primary role in long-chain fatty acid oxidation in vivo (PubMed:20816094, PubMed:24158852). Has little activity on octanoyl-CoA (C8:0), butyryl-CoA (C4:0) or isovaleryl-CoA (5:0).	same
ACAD11	empty	ACAD11 (Acyl-CoA Dehydrogenase Family, Member 11) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACAD11 include childhood leukemia. GO annotations related to this gene include flavin adenine dinucleotide binding and long-chain-acyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACAD8.	Acyl-CoA dehydrogenase, that exhibits maximal activity towards saturated C22-CoA.	same
ABTB1	This gene encodes a protein with an ankyrin repeat region and two BTB/POZ domains, which are thought to be involved in protein-protein interactions. Expression of this gene is activated by the phosphatase and tensin homolog, a tumor suppressor. Alternate splicing results in three transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]	ABTB1 (Ankyrin Repeat And BTB (POZ) Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include translation elongation factor activity.	May act as a mediator of the PTEN growth-suppressive signaling pathway. May play a role in developmental processes.	same
ACAP2	empty	ACAP2 (ArfGAP With Coiled-Coil, Ankyrin Repeat And PH Domains 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Endocytosis and Arf6 signaling events. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is ASAP3.	GTPase-activating protein (GAP) for ADP ribosylation factor 6 (ARF6).	same
ACAT2	The product of this gene is an enzyme involved in lipid metabolism, and it encodes cytosolic acetoacetyl-CoA thiolase. This gene shows complementary overlapping with the 3-prime region of the TCP1 gene in both mouse and human. These genes are encoded on opposite strands of DNA, as well as in opposite transcriptional orientation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2014]	ACAT2 (Acetyl-CoA Acetyltransferase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACAT2 include acat2 deficiency and thiolase deficiency. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Glucose / Energy Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include acetyl-CoA C-acetyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACAA2.	empty	same
ACCN1	This gene encodes a member of the degenerin/epithelial sodium channel (DEG/ENaC) superfamily. The members of this family are amiloride-sensitive sodium channels that contain intracellular N and C termini, 2 hydrophobic transmembrane regions, and a large extracellular loop, which has many cysteine residues with conserved spacing. The member encoded by this gene may play a role in neurotransmission. In addition, a heteromeric association between this member and acid-sensing (proton-gated) ion channel 3 has been observed to co-assemble into proton-gated channels sensitive to gadolinium. Alternative splicing has been observed at this locus and two variants, encoding distinct isoforms, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]	ASIC2 (Acid Sensing (Proton Gated) Ion Channel 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Ion channel transport and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include voltage-gated sodium channel activity and ligand-gated sodium channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is SCNN1G.	Cation channel with high affinity for sodium, which is gated by extracellular protons and inhibited by the diuretic amiloride. Also permeable for Li(+) and K(+). Generates a biphasic current with a fast inactivating and a slow sustained phase. Heteromeric channel assembly seems to modulate	diff
ACADVL	The protein encoded by this gene is targeted to the inner mitochondrial membrane where it catalyzes the first step of the mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation pathway. This acyl-Coenzyme A dehydrogenase is specific to long-chain and very-long-chain fatty acids. A deficiency in this gene product reduces myocardial fatty acid beta-oxidation and is associated with cardiomyopathy. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACADVL (Acyl-CoA Dehydrogenase, Very Long Chain) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACADVL include vlcad deficiency and very long-chain acyl-coenzyme a dehydrogenase deficiency. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include flavin adenine dinucleotide binding and long-chain-acyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACAD8.	Active toward esters of long-chain and very long chain fatty acids such as palmitoyl-CoA, mysritoyl-CoA and stearoyl-CoA. Can accommodate substrate acyl chain lengths as long as 24 carbons, but shows little activity for substrates of less than 12 carbons.	same
ACBD7	empty	ACBD7 (Acyl-CoA Binding Domain Containing 7) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include lipid binding and fatty-acyl-CoA binding. An important paralog of this gene is DBI.	Binds medium- and long-chain acyl-CoA esters	same
ACADSB	Short/branched chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase(ACADSB) is a member of the acyl-CoA dehydrogenase family of enzymes that catalyze the dehydrogenation of acyl-CoA derivatives in the metabolism of fatty acids or branch chained amino acids. Substrate specificity is the primary characteristic used to define members of this gene family. The ACADSB gene product has the greatest activity towards the short branched chain acyl-CoA derivative, (S)-2-methylbutyryl-CoA, but also reacts significantly with other 2-methyl branched chain substrates and with short straight chain acyl-CoAs. The cDNA encodes for a mitochondrial precursor protein which is cleaved upon mitochondrial import and predicted to yield a mature peptide of approximately 43.7-KDa. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACADSB (Acyl-CoA Dehydrogenase, Short/Branched Chain) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACADSB include 2-methylbutyrylglycinuria and isovaleric acidemia. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include flavin adenine dinucleotide binding. An important paralog of this gene is ACAD8.	Has greatest activity toward short branched chain acyl-CoA derivative such as (s)-2-methylbutyryl-CoA, isobutyryl-CoA, and 2-methylhexanoyl-CoA as well as toward short straight chain acyl-CoAs such as butyryl-CoA and hexanoyl-CoA. Can use valproyl-CoA as substrate and may play a role in controlling the metabolic flux of valproic acid in the development of toxicity of this agent	same
ACAT1	This gene encodes a mitochondrially localized enzyme that catalyzes the reversible formation of acetoacetyl-CoA from two molecules of acetyl-CoA. Defects in this gene are associated with 3-ketothiolase deficiency, an inborn error of isoleucine catabolism characterized by urinary excretion of 2-methyl-3-hydroxybutyric acid, 2-methylacetoacetic acid, tiglylglycine, and butanone. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]	ACAT1 (Acetyl-CoA Acetyltransferase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACAT1 include alpha-methylacetoacetic aciduria and hypermethioninemia. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and coenzyme binding. An important paralog of this gene is ACAT2.	Plays a major role in ketone body metabolism	same
ACBD4	This gene encodes a member of the acyl-coenzyme A binding domain containing protein family. All family members contain the conserved acyl-Coenzyme A binding domain, which binds acyl-CoA thiol esters. They are thought to play roles in acyl-CoA dependent lipid metabolism. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]	ACBD4 (Acyl-CoA Binding Domain Containing 4) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include lipid binding and fatty-acyl-CoA binding. An important paralog of this gene is ACBD5.	Binds medium- and long-chain acyl-CoA esters and may function as an intracellular carrier of acyl-CoA esters	same
ACBD6	empty	ACBD6 (Acyl-CoA Binding Domain Containing 6) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include lipid binding and fatty-acyl-CoA binding.	Binds long-chain acyl-coenzyme A molecules with a strong preference for unsaturated C18:1-CoA, lower affinity for unsaturated C20:4-CoA, and very weak affinity for saturated C16:0-CoA. Does not bind fatty acids.	same
ACADL	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the acyl-CoA dehydrogenase family, which is a family of mitochondrial flavoenzymes involved in fatty acid and branched chain amino-acid metabolism. This protein is one of the four enzymes that catalyze the initial step of mitochondrial beta-oxidation of straight-chain fatty acid. Defects in this gene are the cause of long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (LCAD) deficiency, leading to nonketotic hypoglycemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACADL (Acyl-CoA Dehydrogenase, Long Chain) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACADL include lcad deficiency and fatty acid oxidation disorders. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include flavin adenine dinucleotide binding and acyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACAD8.	empty	same
ACADS	This gene encodes a tetrameric mitochondrial flavoprotein, which is a member of the acyl-CoA dehydrogenase family. This enzyme catalyzes the initial step of the mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation pathway. Mutations in this gene have been associated with short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (SCAD) deficiency. Alternative splicing results in two variants which encode different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014]	ACADS (Acyl-CoA Dehydrogenase, C-2 To C-3 Short Chain) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACADS include acyl-coa dehydrogenase, short-chain, deficiency of and carotid artery dissection. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include flavin adenine dinucleotide binding and acyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACAD8.	empty	same
ACBD3	The Golgi complex plays a key role in the sorting and modification of proteins exported from the endoplasmic reticulum. The protein encoded by this gene is involved in the maintenance of Golgi structure and function through its interaction with the integral membrane protein giantin. It may also be involved in the hormonal regulation of steroid formation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACBD3 (Acyl-CoA Binding Domain Containing 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Benzodiazepine Pathway, Pharmacodynamics. GO annotations related to this gene include fatty-acyl-CoA binding. An important paralog of this gene is TMED8.	Involved in the maintenance of Golgi structure by interacting with giantin, affecting protein transport between the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi. Involved in hormone-induced steroid biosynthesis in testicular Leydig cells (By similarity).	same
ACER3	empty	ACER3 (Alkaline Ceramidase 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACER3 include partial fetal alcohol syndrome and farber lipogranulomatosis. Among its related pathways are Sphingolipid metabolism and Sphingolipid metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include phytoceramidase activity.	Hydrolyzes only phytoceramide into phytosphingosine and free fatty acid. Does not have reverse activity	same
ACCN3	This gene encodes a member of the degenerin/epithelial sodium channel (DEG/ENaC) superfamily. The members of this family are amiloride-sensitive sodium channels that contain intracellular N and C termini, two hydrophobic transmembrane regions, and a large extracellular loop, which has many cysteine residues with conserved spacing. The member encoded by this gene is an acid sensor and may play an important role in the detection of lasting pH changes. In addition, a heteromeric association between this member and acid-sensing (proton-gated) ion channel 2 has been observed as proton-gated channels sensitive to gadolinium. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]	ASIC3 (Acid Sensing (Proton Gated) Ion Channel 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Ion channel transport and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include PDZ domain binding and sodium channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is SCNN1G.	Cation channel with high affinity for sodium, which is gated by extracellular protons and inhibited by the diuretic amiloride. Generates a biphasic current with a fast inactivating and a slow sustained phase. In sensory neurons is proposed to mediate the pain induced by acidosis that occurs in ischemic, damaged or inflamed tissue. May be involved in hyperalgesia. May play a role in mechanoreception. Heteromeric channel assembly seems to modulate channel properties.	diff
ACCN2	This gene encodes a member of the acid-sensing ion channel (ASIC) family of proteins, which are part of the degenerin/epithelial sodium channel (DEG/ENaC) superfamily. Members of the ASIC family are sensitive to amiloride and function in neurotransmission. The encoded proteins function in learning, pain transduction, touch sensation, and development of memory and fear. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]	ASIC1 (Acid Sensing (Proton Gated) Ion Channel 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Ion channel transport and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include ligand-gated sodium channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is SCNN1G.	Isoform 2 and isoform 3 function as proton-gated sodium channels; they are activated by a drop of the extracellular pH and then become rapidly desensitized. The channel generates a biphasic current with a fast inactivating and a slow sustained phase. Has high selectivity for sodium ions and can also transport lithium ions with high efficiency. Isoform 2 can also transport potassium, but with lower efficiency. It is nearly impermeable to the larger rubidium and cesium ions. Isoform 3 can also transport calcium ions. Mediates glutamate-independent Ca(2+) entry into neurons upon acidosis. This Ca(2+) overloading is toxic for cortical neurons and may be in part responsible for ischemic brain injury. Heteromeric channel assembly seems to modulate channel properties. Functions as a postsynaptic proton receptor that influences intracellular Ca(2+) concentration and calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II phosphorylation and thereby the density of dendritic spines. Modulates activity in the circuits underlying innate fear.	diff
ACIN1	Apoptosis is defined by several morphologic nuclear changes, including chromatin condensation and nuclear fragmentation. This gene encodes a nuclear protein that induces apoptotic chromatin condensation after activation by caspase-3, without inducing DNA fragmentation. This protein has also been shown to be a component of a splicing-dependent multiprotein exon junction complex (EJC) that is deposited at splice junctions on mRNAs, as a consequence of pre-mRNA splicing. It may thus be involved in mRNA metabolism associated with splicing. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]	ACIN1 (Apoptotic Chromatin Condensation Inducer 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACIN1 include breast adenomyoepithelioma. Among its related pathways are CDK-mediated phosphorylation and removal of Cdc6 and RNA transport. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleotide binding and enzyme binding.	Auxiliary component of the splicing-dependent multiprotein exon junction complex (EJC) deposited at splice junction on mRNAs. The EJC is a dynamic structure consisting of core proteins and several peripheral nuclear and cytoplasmic associated factors that join the complex only transiently either during EJC assembly or during subsequent mRNA metabolism. Component of the ASAP complexes which bind RNA in a sequence-independent manner and are proposed to be recruited to the EJC prior to or during the splicing process and to regulate specific excision of introns in specific transcription subsets; ACIN1 confers RNA-binding to the complex. The ASAP complex can inhibit RNA processing during in vitro splicing reactions. The ASAP complex promotes apoptosis and is disassembled after induction of apoptosis. Involved in the splicing modulation of BCL2L1/Bcl-X (and probably other apoptotic genes); specifically inhibits formation of proapoptotic isoforms such as Bcl-X(S); the activity is different from the established EJC assembly and function. Induces apoptotic chromatin condensation after activation by CASP3. Regulates cyclin A1, but not cyclin A2, expression in leukemia cells.	same
ACE	This gene encodes an enzyme involved in catalyzing the conversion of angiotensin I into a physiologically active peptide angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a potent vasopressor and aldosterone-stimulating peptide that controls blood pressure and fluid-electrolyte balance. This enzyme plays a key role in the renin-angiotensin system. Many studies have associated the presence or absence of a 287 bp Alu repeat element in this gene with the levels of circulating enzyme or cardiovascular pathophysiologies. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified, and two most abundant spliced variants encode the somatic form and the testicular form, respectively, that are equally active. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	ACE (Angiotensin I Converting Enzyme) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACE include microvascular complications of diabetes 3 and renal tubular dysgenesis, ace-related. Among its related pathways are p70S6K Signaling and Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding and drug binding. An important paralog of this gene is TMEM27.	Converts angiotensin I to angiotensin II by release of the terminal His-Leu, this results in an increase of the vasoconstrictor activity of angiotensin. Also able to inactivate bradykinin, a potent vasodilator. Has also a glycosidase activity which releases GPI-anchored proteins from the membrane by cleaving the mannose linkage in the GPI moiety	same
ACMSD	The neuronal excitotoxin quinolinate is an intermediate in the de novo synthesis pathway of NAD from tryptophan, and has been implicated in the pathogenesis of several neurodegenerative disorders. Quinolinate is derived from alpha-amino-beta-carboxy-muconate-epsilon-semialdehyde (ACMS). ACMSD (ACMS decarboxylase; EC 4.1.1.45) can divert ACMS to a benign catabolite and thus prevent the accumulation of quinolinate from ACMS.[supplied by OMIM, Oct 2004]	ACMSD (Aminocarboxymuconate Semialdehyde Decarboxylase) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include aminocarboxymuconate-semialdehyde decarboxylase activity.	Converts alpha-amino-beta-carboxymuconate-epsilon-semialdehyde (ACMS) to alpha-aminomuconate semialdehyde (AMS). ACMS can be converted non-enzymatically to quinolate (QA), a key precursor of NAD, and a potent endogenous excitotoxin of neuronal cells which is implicated in the pathogenesis of various neurodegenerative disorders. In the presence of ACMSD, ACMS is converted to AMS, a benign catabolite. ACMSD ultimately controls the metabolic fate of tryptophan catabolism along the kynurenine pathway.	same
ACCN4	This gene belongs to the superfamily of acid-sensing ion channels, which are proton-gated, amiloride-sensitive sodium channels. These channels have been implicated in synaptic transmission, pain perception as well as mechanoperception. This gene is predominantly expressed in the pituitary gland, and was considered a candidate for paroxysmal dystonic choreoathetosis (PDC), a movement disorder, however, no correlation was found between mutations in this gene and PDC. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]	ASIC4 (Acid Sensing (Proton Gated) Ion Channel Family Member 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Ion channel transport and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include ion channel activity and sodium ion transmembrane transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is SCNN1G.	Probable cation channel with high affinity for sodium. In vitro, has no proton-gated channel activity.	diff
ACD	This gene encodes a protein that is involved in telomere function. This protein is one of six core proteins in the telosome/shelterin telomeric complex, which functions to maintain telomere length and to protect telomere ends. Through its interaction with other components, this protein plays a key role in the assembly and stabilization of this complex, and it mediates the access of telomerase to the telomere. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. This gene, which is also referred to as TPP1, is distinct from the unrelated TPP1 gene on chromosome 11, which encodes tripeptidyl-peptidase I. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACD (Adrenocortical Dysplasia Homolog (Mouse)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACD include hereditary isolated aplastic anemia and dyskeratosis congenita. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Lysosome. GO annotations related to this gene include telomeric DNA binding and DNA polymerase binding.	Component of the shelterin complex (telosome) that is involved in the regulation of telomere length and protection. Shelterin associates with arrays of double-stranded TTAGGG repeats added by telomerase and protects chromosome ends; without its protective activity, telomeres are no longer hidden from the DNA damage surveillance and chromosome ends are inappropriately processed by DNA repair pathways. Promotes binding of POT1 to single-stranded telomeric DNA. Modulates the inhibitory effects of POT1 on telomere elongation. The ACD-POT1 heterodimer enhances telomere elongation by increasing telomerase processivity. Plays a role in shelterin complex assembly. May play a role in organogenesis.	same
ACHE	Acetylcholinesterase hydrolyzes the neurotransmitter, acetylcholine at neuromuscular junctions and brain cholinergic synapses, and thus terminates signal transmission. It is also found on the red blood cell membranes, where it constitutes the Yt blood group antigen. Acetylcholinesterase exists in multiple molecular forms which possess similar catalytic properties, but differ in their oligomeric assembly and mode of cell attachment to the cell surface. It is encoded by the single ACHE gene, and the structural diversity in the gene products arises from alternative mRNA splicing, and post-translational associations of catalytic and structural subunits. The major form of acetylcholinesterase found in brain, muscle and other tissues is the hydrophilic species, which forms disulfide-linked oligomers with collagenous, or lipid-containing structural subunits. The other, alternatively spliced form, expressed primarily in the erythroid tissues, differs at the C-terminal end, and contains a cleavable hydrophobic peptide with a GPI-anchor site. It associates with the membranes through the phosphoinositide (PI) moieties added post-translationally. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACHE (Acetylcholinesterase (Yt Blood Group)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACHE include colonic pseudo-obstruction and gastroschisis. Among its related pathways are Integrated Pancreatic Cancer Pathway and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and collagen binding. An important paralog of this gene is CES2.	Terminates signal transduction at the neuromuscular junction by rapid hydrolysis of the acetylcholine released into the synaptic cleft. Role in neuronal apoptosis.	same
ACCS	empty	ACCS (1-Aminocyclopropane-1-Carboxylate Synthase Homolog (Arabidopsis)(Non-Functional)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate synthase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACCSL.	Does not catalyze the synthesis of 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate but is capable of catalyzing the deamination of L-vinylglycine.	same
ACN9	empty	SDHAF3 (Succinate Dehydrogenase Complex Assembly Factor 3) is a Protein Coding gene.	Plays an essential role in the assembly of succinate dehydrogenase (SDH), an enzyme complex (also referred to as respiratory complex II) that is a component of both the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle and the mitochondrial electron transport chain, and which couples the oxidation of succinate to fumarate with the reduction of ubiquinone (coenzyme Q) to ubiquinol. Promotes maturation of the iron-sulfur protein subunit SDHB of the SDH catalytic dimer, protecting it from the deleterious effects of oxidants. May act together with SDHAF1.	diff
ACER2	The sphingolipid metabolite sphingosine-1-phosphate promotes cell proliferation and survival, whereas its precursor, sphingosine, has the opposite effect. The ceramidase ACER2 hydrolyzes very long chain ceramides to generate sphingosine (Xu et al., 2006 [PubMed 16940153]).[supplied by OMIM, Jul 2010]	ACER2 (Alkaline Ceramidase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACER2 include farber lipogranulomatosis and lipogranulomatosis. Among its related pathways are Sphingolipid metabolism and Sphingolipid metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include ceramidase activity and dihydroceramidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACER1.	Hydrolyzes the sphingolipid ceramide into sphingosine and free fatty acid. Unsaturated long-chain ceramides are the best substrates, saturated long-chain ceramides and unsaturated very long-chain ceramides are good substrates, whereas saturated very long-chain ceramides and short-chain ceramides were poor substrates. The substrate preference is D-erythro-C(18:1)-, C(20:1)-, C(20:4)-ceramide > D-erythro-C(16:0)-, C(18:0), C(20:0)-ceramide > D-erythro-C(24:1)-ceramide > D-erythro-C(12:0)-ceramide, D-erythro-C(14:0)-ceramides > D-erythro-C(24:0)-ceramide > D-erythro-C(6:0)-ceramide. Inhibits the maturation of protein glycosylation in the Golgi complex, including that of integrin beta-1 (ITGB1) and of LAMP1, by increasing the levels of sphingosine. Inhibits cell adhesion by reducing the level of ITGB1 in the cell surface. May have a role in cell proliferation and apoptosis that seems to depend on the balance between sphingosine and sphingosine-1-phosphate.	same
ACOT11	This gene encodes a member of the acyl-CoA thioesterase family which catalyse the conversion of activated fatty acids to the corresponding non-esterified fatty acid and coenzyme A. Expression of a mouse homolog in brown adipose tissue is induced by low temperatures and repressed by warm temperatures. Higher levels of expression of the mouse homolog has been found in obesity-resistant mice compared with obesity-prone mice, suggesting a role of acyl-CoA thioesterase 11 in obesity. Alternative splicing results in transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]	ACOT11 (Acyl-CoA Thioesterase 11) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACOT11 include obesity. GO annotations related to this gene include acyl-CoA hydrolase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACOT12.	Has acyl-CoA thioesterase activity towards medium (C12) and long-chain (C18) fatty acyl-CoA substrates	same
ACE2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the angiotensin-converting enzyme family of dipeptidyl carboxydipeptidases and has considerable homology to human angiotensin 1 converting enzyme. This secreted protein catalyzes the cleavage of angiotensin I into angiotensin 1-9, and angiotensin II into the vasodilator angiotensin 1-7. The organ- and cell-specific expression of this gene suggests that it may play a role in the regulation of cardiovascular and renal function, as well as fertility. In addition, the encoded protein is a functional receptor for the spike glycoprotein of the human coronaviruses SARS and HCoV-NL63. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACE2 (Angiotensin I Converting Enzyme 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACE2 include tetanus neonatorum and neurogenic hypertension. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Protein Stability. GO annotations related to this gene include metallopeptidase activity and virus receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is TMEM27.	Carboxypeptidase which converts angiotensin I to angiotensin 1-9, a peptide of unknown function, and angiotensin II to angiotensin 1-7, a vasodilator. Also able to hydrolyze apelin-13 and dynorphin-13 with high efficiency. May be an important regulator of heart function. In case of human coronaviruses SARS and HCoV-NL63 infections, serve as functional receptor for the spike glycoprotein of both coronaviruses.	same
ACCSL	empty	ACCSL (1-Aminocyclopropane-1-Carboxylate Synthase Homolog (Arabidopsis)(Non-Functional)-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include pyridoxal phosphate binding. An important paralog of this gene is ACCS.	empty	same
ACCN5	This gene belongs to the amiloride-sensitive Na+ channel and degenerin (NaC/DEG) family, members of which have been identified in many animal species ranging from the nematode to human. The amiloride-sensitive Na(+) channel encoded by this gene is primarily expressed in the small intestine, however, its exact function is not known. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ASIC5 (Acid Sensing (Proton Gated) Ion Channel Family Member 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ASIC5 include hypoaldosteronism. Among its related pathways are Ion channel transport and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include ligand-gated sodium channel activity and hydrogen ion channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is SCNN1G.	Cation channel that gives rise to very low constitutive currents in the absence of activation. The activated channel exhibits selectivity for sodium, and is inhibited by amiloride.	diff
ACOT1	empty	ACOT1 (Acyl-CoA Thioesterase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and stearate biosynthesis I (animals). GO annotations related to this gene include acyl-CoA hydrolase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACOT2.	Acyl-CoA thioesterases are a group of enzymes that catalyze the hydrolysis of acyl-CoAs to the free fatty acid and coenzyme A (CoASH), providing the potential to regulate intracellular levels of acyl-CoAs, free fatty acids and CoASH. Active towards fatty acyl-CoA with chain-lengths of C12-C16 (By similarity).	same
ACOT2	This gene encodes a member of the acyl-CoA thioesterase protein family, and is one of four acyl-CoA hydrolase genes located in a cluster on chromosome 14. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]	ACOT2 (Acyl-CoA Thioesterase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Ovarian steroidogenesis. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and palmitoyl-CoA hydrolase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACOT4.	Acyl-CoA thioesterases are a group of enzymes that catalyze the hydrolysis of acyl-CoAs to the free fatty acid and coenzyme A (CoASH), providing the potential to regulate intracellular levels of acyl-CoAs, free fatty acids and CoASH. Displays high levels of activity on medium- and long chain acyl CoAs.	same
ACOT12	empty	ACOT12 (Acyl-CoA Thioesterase 12) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Pyruvate metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include acetyl-CoA hydrolase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACOT11.	Hydrolyzes acetyl-CoA to acetate and CoA.	same
ACER1	Ceramides are synthesized during epidermal differentiation and accumulate within the interstices of the stratum corneum, where they represent critical components of the epidermal permeability barrier. Excess cellular ceramide can trigger antimitogenic signals and induce apoptosis, and the ceramide metabolites sphingosine and sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) are important bioregulatory molecules. Ceramide hydrolysis in the nucleated cell layers regulates keratinocyte proliferation and apoptosis in response to external stress. Ceramide hydrolysis also occurs at the stratum corneum, releasing free sphingoid base that functions as an endogenous antimicrobial agent. ACER1 is highly expressed in epidermis and catalyzes the hydrolysis of very long chain ceramides to generate sphingosine (Houben et al., 2006 [PubMed 16477081]; Sun et al., 2008 [PubMed 17713573]).[supplied by OMIM, Jul 2010]	ACER1 (Alkaline Ceramidase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACER1 include farber lipogranulomatosis and lipogranulomatosis. Among its related pathways are Sphingolipid metabolism and Sphingolipid metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include ceramidase activity and dihydroceramidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACER2.	Hydrolyzes the sphingolipid ceramide into sphingosine and free fatty acid at an optimal pH of 8.0. Has a highly restricted substrate specificity for the natural stereoisomer of ceramide with D-erythro-sphingosine but not D-ribo-phytosphingosine or D-erythro-dihydrosphingosine as a backbone. May have a role in regulating the levels of bioactive lipids ceramide and sphingosine 1-phosphate, as well as complex sphingolipids (By similarity).	same
ACO1	The protein encoded by this gene is a bifunctional, cytosolic protein that functions as an essential enzyme in the TCA cycle and interacts with mRNA to control the levels of iron inside cells. When cellular iron levels are high, this protein binds to a 4Fe-4S cluster and functions as an aconitase. Aconitases are iron-sulfur proteins that function to catalyze the conversion of citrate to isocitrate. When cellular iron levels are low, the protein binds to iron-responsive elements (IREs), which are stem-loop structures found in the 5' UTR of ferritin mRNA, and in the 3' UTR of transferrin receptor mRNA. When the protein binds to IRE, it results in repression of translation of ferritin mRNA, and inhibition of degradation of the otherwise rapidly degraded transferrin receptor mRNA. The encoded protein has been identified as a moonlighting protein based on its ability to perform mechanistically distinct functions. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2014]	ACO1 (Aconitase 1, Soluble) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACO1 include x-linked sideroblastic anemia with ataxia and hyperferritinemia-cataract syndrome. Among its related pathways are Carbon metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and iron-responsive element binding. An important paralog of this gene is IREB2.	Iron sensor. Binds a 4Fe-4S cluster and functions as aconitase when cellular iron levels are high. Functions as mRNA binding protein that regulates uptake, sequestration and utilization of iron when cellular iron levels are low. Binds to iron-responsive elements (IRES) in target mRNA species when iron levels are low. Binding of a 4Fe-4S cluster precludes RNA binding.	same
ACLY	ATP citrate lyase is the primary enzyme responsible for the synthesis of cytosolic acetyl-CoA in many tissues. The enzyme is a tetramer (relative molecular weight approximately 440,000) of apparently identical subunits. It catalyzes the formation of acetyl-CoA and oxaloacetate from citrate and CoA with a concomitant hydrolysis of ATP to ADP and phosphate. The product, acetyl-CoA, serves several important biosynthetic pathways, including lipogenesis and cholesterogenesis. In nervous tissue, ATP citrate-lyase may be involved in the biosynthesis of acetylcholine. Multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2014]	ACLY (ATP Citrate Lyase) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Regulation of Cholesterol Biosynthesis by SREBP (SREBF) and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include cofactor binding and ATP citrate synthase activity. An important paralog of this gene is SUCLG1.	ATP citrate-lyase is the primary enzyme responsible for the synthesis of cytosolic acetyl-CoA in many tissues. Has a central role in de novo lipid synthesis. In nervous tissue it may be involved in the biosynthesis of acetylcholine.	same
ACOT4	empty	ACOT4 (Acyl-CoA Thioesterase 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and stearate biosynthesis I (animals). GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and palmitoyl-CoA hydrolase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACOT2.	Acyl-CoA thioesterases are a group of enzymes that catalyze the hydrolysis of acyl-CoAs to the free fatty acid and coenzyme A (CoASH), providing the potential to regulate intracellular levels of acyl-CoAs, free fatty acids and CoASH (By similarity). Succinyl-CoA thioesterase that also hydrolyzes long chain saturated and unsaturated monocarboxylic acyl-CoAs.	same
ACOT7	This gene encodes a member of the acyl coenzyme family. The encoded protein hydrolyzes the CoA thioester of palmitoyl-CoA and other long-chain fatty acids. Decreased expression of this gene may be associated with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms with different subcellular locations have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACOT7 (Acyl-CoA Thioesterase 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACOT7 include fatty acid oxidation disorders and temporal lobe epilepsy. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of unsaturated fatty acids and Biosynthesis of unsaturated fatty acids. GO annotations related to this gene include palmitoyl-CoA hydrolase activity.	Acyl-CoA thioesterases are a group of enzymes that catalyze the hydrolysis of acyl-CoAs to the free fatty acid and coenzyme A (CoASH), providing the potential to regulate intracellular levels of acyl-CoAs, free fatty acids and CoASH. May play an important physiological function in brain. May play a regulatory role by modulating the cellular levels of fatty acyl-CoA ligands for certain transcription factors as well as the substrates for fatty acid metabolizing enzymes, contributing to lipid homeostasis. Has broad specificity, active towards fatty acyl-CoAs with chain-lengths of C8-C18. Has a maximal activity toward palmitoyl-CoA	same
ACOT8	The protein encoded by this gene is a peroxisomal thioesterase that appears to be involved more in the oxidation of fatty acids rather than in their formation. The encoded protein can bind to the human immunodeficiency virus-1 protein Nef, and mediate Nef-induced down-regulation of CD4 in T-cells. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]	ACOT8 (Acyl-CoA Thioesterase 8) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and palmitoyl-CoA hydrolase activity.	Acyl-CoA thioesterases are a group of enzymes that catalyze the hydrolysis of acyl-CoAs to the free fatty acid and coenzyme A (CoASH), providing the potential to regulate intracellular levels of acyl-CoAs, free fatty acids and CoASH. May mediate Nef-induced down-regulation of CD4. Major thioesterase in peroxisomes. Competes with BAAT (Bile acid CoA: amino acid N-acyltransferase) for bile acid-CoA substrate (such as chenodeoxycholoyl-CoA). Shows a preference for medium-length fatty acyl-CoAs (By similarity). May be involved in the metabolic regulation of peroxisome proliferation.	same
ACOX1	The protein encoded by this gene is the first enzyme of the fatty acid beta-oxidation pathway, which catalyzes the desaturation of acyl-CoAs to 2-trans-enoyl-CoAs. It donates electrons directly to molecular oxygen, thereby producing hydrogen peroxide. Defects in this gene result in pseudoneonatal adrenoleukodystrophy, a disease that is characterized by accumulation of very long chain fatty acids. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACOX1 (Acyl-CoA Oxidase 1, Palmitoyl) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACOX1 include peroxisomal acyl-coa oxidase deficiency and d-bifunctional protein deficiency. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and flavin adenine dinucleotide binding. An important paralog of this gene is ACOX3.	Catalyzes the desaturation of acyl-CoAs to 2-trans-enoyl-CoAs. Isoform 1 shows highest activity against medium-chain fatty acyl-CoAs and activity decreases with increasing chain length. Isoform 2 is active against a much broader range of substrates and shows activity towards very long-chain acyl-CoAs. Isoform 2 is twice as active as isoform 1 against 16-hydroxy-palmitoyl-CoA and is 25% more active against 1,16-hexadecanodioyl-CoA.	same
ACO2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the aconitase/IPM isomerase family. It is an enzyme that catalyzes the interconversion of citrate to isocitrate via cis-aconitate in the second step of the TCA cycle. This protein is encoded in the nucleus and functions in the mitochondrion. It was found to be one of the mitochondrial matrix proteins that are preferentially degraded by the serine protease 15(PRSS15), also known as Lon protease, after oxidative modification. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACO2 (Aconitase 2, Mitochondrial) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACO2 include infantile cerebellar-retinal degeneration and athetosis. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein. GO annotations related to this gene include iron ion binding and aconitate hydratase activity.	Catalyzes the isomerization of citrate to isocitrate via cis-aconitate.	same
ACP5	This gene encodes an iron containing glycoprotein which catalyzes the conversion of orthophosphoric monoester to alcohol and orthophosphate. It is the most basic of the acid phosphatases and is the only form not inhibited by L(+)-tartrate. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]	ACP5 (Acid Phosphatase 5, Tartrate Resistant) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACP5 include spondyloenchondrodysplasia with immune dysregulation and spondyloenchondrodysplasia. Among its related pathways are Disease and Lysosome. GO annotations related to this gene include ferrous iron binding and acid phosphatase activity.	Involved in osteopontin/bone sialoprotein dephosphorylation. Its expression seems to increase in certain pathological states such as Gaucher and Hodgkin diseases, the hairy cell, the B-cell, and the T-cell leukemias	same
ACOXL	empty	ACOXL (Acyl-CoA Oxidase-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include flavin adenine dinucleotide binding and acyl-CoA oxidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACOX3.	empty	same
ACOT9	The protein encoded by this gene is a mitochondrial acyl-CoA thioesterase of unknown function. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]	ACOT9 (Acyl-CoA Thioesterase 9) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are acyl-CoA hydrolysis. GO annotations related to this gene include acetyl-CoA hydrolase activity.	Acyl-CoA thioesterases are a group of enzymes that catalyze the hydrolysis of acyl-CoAs to the free fatty acid and coenzyme A (CoASH), providing the potential to regulate intracellular levels of acyl-CoAs, free fatty acids and CoASH. Active on long chain acyl-CoAs	same
ACOT13	This gene encodes a member of the thioesterase superfamily. In humans, the protein co-localizes with microtubules and is essential for sustained cell proliferation. The orthologous mouse protein forms a homotetramer and is associated with mitochondria. The mouse protein functions as a medium- and long-chain acyl-CoA thioesterase. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, May 2009]	ACOT13 (Acyl-CoA Thioesterase 13) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACOT13 include larynx verrucous carcinoma and cutaneous anthrax. GO annotations related to this gene include acyl-CoA hydrolase activity.	Acyl-CoA thioesterases are a group of enzymes that catalyze the hydrolysis of acyl-CoAs to the free fatty acid and coenzyme A (CoASH), providing the potential to regulate intracellular levels of acyl-CoAs, free fatty acids and CoASH. Has acyl-CoA thioesterase activity towards medium (C12) and long-chain (C18) fatty acyl-CoA substrates. Can also hydrolyze 3-hydroxyphenylacetyl-CoA and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetyl-CoA (in vitro). May play a role in controlling adaptive thermogenesis (By similarity).	same
ACPL2	empty	PXYLP1 (2-Phosphoxylose Phosphatase 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	Responsible for the 2-O-dephosphorylation of xylose in the glycosaminoglycan-protein linkage region of proteoglycans thereby regulating the amount of mature glycosaminoglycan (GAG) chains. Sulfated glycosaminoglycans (GAGs), including heparan sulfate and chondroitin sulfate, are synthesized on the so-called common GAG-protein linkage region (GlcUAbeta1-3Galbeta1-3Galbeta1-4Xylbeta1-O-Ser) of core proteins, which is formed by the stepwise addition of monosaccharide residues by the respective specific glycosyltransferases. Xylose 2-O-dephosphorylation during completion of linkage region formation is a prerequisite for the initiation and efficient elongation of the repeating disaccharide region of GAG chains.	diff
ACOX3	Acyl-Coenzyme A oxidase 3 also know as pristanoyl -CoA oxidase (ACOX3)is involved in the desaturation of 2-methyl branched fatty acids in peroxisomes. Unlike the rat homolog, the human gene is expressed in very low amounts in liver such that its mRNA was undetectable by routine Northern-blot analysis or its product by immunoblotting or by enzyme activity measurements. However the human cDNA encoding a 700 amino acid protein with a peroxisomal targeting C-terminal tripeptide S-K-L was isolated and is thought to be expressed under special conditions such as specific developmental stages or in a tissue specific manner in tissues that have not yet been examined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACOX3 (Acyl-CoA Oxidase 3, Pristanoyl) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACOX3 include mutism. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and acyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACOX1.	Oxidizes the CoA-esters of 2-methyl-branched fatty acids.	same
ACPT	Acid phosphatases are enzymes capable of hydrolyzing orthophosphoric acid esters in an acid medium. This gene is up-regulated by androgens and is down-regulated by estrogens in the prostate cancer cell line. This gene exhibits a lower level of expression in testicular cancer tissues than in normal tissues. The protein encoded by this gene has structural similarity to prostatic and lysosomal acid phosphatases. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described, but their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACPT (Acid Phosphatase, Testicular) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACPT include testicular cancer and prostate cancer. Among its related pathways are Riboflavin metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include acid phosphatase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACPP.	Dephosphorylates receptor tyrosine-protein kinase erbB-4 and inhibits the ligand-induced proteolytic cleavage.	same
ACP2	This gene encodes the beta subunit of lysosomal acid phosphatase (LAP). LAP is chemically and genetically distinct from red cell acid phosphatase. The encoded protein belongs to a family of distinct isoenzymes which hydrolyze orthophosphoric monoesters to alcohol and phosphate. LAP-deficiencies in mice cause multiple defects including bone structure alterations, lysosomal storage defects in the kidneys and central nervous system, and an increased tendency towards seizures. An enzymatically-inactive allele of LAP in mice exhibited a more severe phenotype than the null allele, and defects included cerebellum abnormalities, growth retardation, hair-follicle abnormalities, and an ataxia-like phenotype. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014]	ACP2 (Acid Phosphatase 2, Lysosomal) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACP2 include lysosomal acid phosphatase deficiency. Among its related pathways are Lysosome and Riboflavin metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include acid phosphatase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACPP.	empty	same
ACRV1	This gene encodes a testis-specific, differentiation antigen, acrosomal vesicle protein 1, that arises within the acrosomal vesicle during spermatogenesis, and is associated with the acrosomal membranes and matrix of mature sperm. The acrosomal vesicle protein 1 may be involved in sperm-zona binding or penetration. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]	ACRV1 (Acrosomal Vesicle Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACRV1 include hordeolum.	empty	same
ACOT6	empty	ACOT6 (Acyl-CoA Thioesterase 6) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ACOT2.	empty	same
ACOX2	The product of this gene belongs to the acyl-CoA oxidase family. It encodes the branched-chain acyl-CoA oxidase which is involved in the degradation of long branched fatty acids and bile acid intermediates in peroxisomes. Deficiency of this enzyme results in the accumulation of branched fatty acids and bile acid intermediates, and may lead to Zellweger syndrome, severe mental retardation, and death in children. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]	ACOX2 (Acyl-CoA Oxidase 2, Branched Chain) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and acyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACOX3.	Oxidizes the CoA esters of the bile acid intermediates di- and tri-hydroxycholestanoic acids	same
ACP1	The product of this gene belongs to the phosphotyrosine protein phosphatase family of proteins. It functions as an acid phosphatase and a protein tyrosine phosphatase by hydrolyzing protein tyrosine phosphate to protein tyrosine and orthophosphate. This enzyme also hydrolyzes orthophosphoric monoesters to alcohol and orthophosphate. This gene is genetically polymorphic, and three common alleles segregating at the corresponding locus give rise to six phenotypes. Each allele appears to encode at least two electrophoretically different isozymes, Bf and Bs, which are produced in allele-specific ratios. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]	ACP1 (Acid Phosphatase 1, Soluble) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACP1 include okamoto syndrome and bubonic plague. Among its related pathways are PDGFR-beta signaling pathway and Adherens junction. GO annotations related to this gene include SH3 domain binding and non-membrane spanning protein tyrosine phosphatase activity.	Acts on tyrosine phosphorylated proteins, low-MW aryl phosphates and natural and synthetic acyl phosphates. Isoform 3 does not possess phosphatase activity	same
ACP6	empty	ACP6 (Acid Phosphatase 6, Lysophosphatidic) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACP6 include atrioventricular septal defect. Among its related pathways are Riboflavin metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include acid phosphatase activity and lysophosphatidic acid phosphatase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACPP.	Hydrolyzes lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) containing a medium length fatty acid chain to the corresponding monoacylglycerol. Has highest activity with lysophosphatidic acid containing myristate (C14:0), monounsaturated oleate (C18:1) or palmitate (C16:0), and lower activity with C18:0 and C6:0 lysophosphatidic acid.	same
ACSF3	This gene encodes a member of the acyl-CoA synthetase family of enzymes that activate fatty acids by catalyzing the formation of a thioester linkage between fatty acids and coenzyme A. The encoded protein is localized to mitochondria, has high specificity for malonate and methylmalonate and possesses malonyl-CoA synthetase activity. Mutations in this gene are a cause of combined malonic and methylmalonic aciduria. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2013]	ACSF3 (Acyl-CoA Synthetase Family Member 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACSF3 include combined malonic and methylmalonic aciduria and combined malonic and methylmalonic acidemia. GO annotations related to this gene include acid-thiol ligase activity and malonyl-CoA synthetase activity.	Catalyzes the initial reaction in intramitochondrial fatty acid synthesis, by activating malonate and methylmalonate, but not acetate, into their respective CoA thioester. May have some preference toward very-long-chain substrates.	same
ACPP	This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of orthophosphoric monoester to alcohol and orthophosphate. It is synthesized under androgen regulation and is secreted by the epithelial cells of the prostate gland. An alternatively spliced transcript variant encoding a longer isoform has been found for this gene. This isoform contains a transmembrane domain and is localized in the plasma membrane-endosomal-lysosomal pathway. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008]	ACPP (Acid Phosphatase, Prostate) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACPP include prostatic adenoma and nephrogenic adenoma of the urethra. Among its related pathways are Riboflavin metabolism and Purine metabolism (KEGG). GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and acid phosphatase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACPT.	A non-specific tyrosine phosphatase that dephosphorylates a diverse number of substrates under acidic conditions (pH 4-6) including alkyl, aryl, and acyl orthophosphate monoesters and phosphorylated proteins. Has lipid phosphatase activity and inactivates lysophosphatidic acid in seminal plasma	same
ACRC	empty	ACRC (Acidic Repeat Containing) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACRC include appendix adenocarcinoma.	empty	same
ACSL3	The protein encoded by this gene is an isozyme of the long-chain fatty-acid-coenzyme A ligase family. Although differing in substrate specificity, subcellular localization, and tissue distribution, all isozymes of this family convert free long-chain fatty acids into fatty acyl-CoA esters, and thereby play a key role in lipid biosynthesis and fatty acid degradation. This isozyme is highly expressed in brain, and preferentially utilizes myristate, arachidonate, and eicosapentaenoate as substrates. The amino acid sequence of this isozyme is 92% identical to that of rat homolog. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACSL3 (Acyl-CoA Synthetase Long-Chain Family Member 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACSL3 include saethre-chotzen syndrome. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and long-chain fatty acid-CoA ligase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACSL4.	Acyl-CoA synthetases (ACSL) activates long-chain fatty acids for both synthesis of cellular lipids, and degradation via beta-oxidation. ACSL3 mediates hepatic lipogenesis (By similarity). Preferentially uses myristate, laurate, arachidonate and eicosapentaenoate as substrates (By similarity). Has mainly an anabolic role in energy metabolism. Required for the incorporation of fatty acids into phosphatidylcholine, the major phospholipid located on the surface of VLDL (very low density lipoproteins).	same
ACSBG1	The protein encoded by this gene possesses long-chain acyl-CoA synthetase activity. It is thought to play a central role in brain very long-chain fatty acids metabolism and myelinogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACSBG1 (Acyl-CoA Synthetase Bubblegum Family Member 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Adipocytokine signaling pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include long-chain fatty acid-CoA ligase activity and very long-chain fatty acid-CoA ligase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACSBG2.	Mediates activation of long-chain fatty acids for both synthesis of cellular lipids, and degradation via beta-oxidation. Able to activate long-chain fatty acids. Also able to activate very long-chain fatty acids; however, the relevance of such activity is unclear in vivo. Can activate diverse saturated, monosaturated and polyunsaturated fatty acids.	same
ACSM3	empty	ACSM3 (Acyl-CoA Synthetase Medium-Chain Family Member 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACSM3 include hypertension, essential. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and stearate biosynthesis I (animals). GO annotations related to this gene include butyrate-CoA ligase activity and fatty acid ligase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACSM2B.	Has medium-chain fatty acid:CoA ligase activity with broad substrate specificity (in vitro). Acts on acids from C(4) to C(11) and on the corresponding 3-hydroxy- and 2,3- or 3,4-unsaturated acids (in vitro) (By similarity).	same
ACSL5	The protein encoded by this gene is an isozyme of the long-chain fatty-acid-coenzyme A ligase family. Although differing in substrate specificity, subcellular localization, and tissue distribution, all isozymes of this family convert free long-chain fatty acids into fatty acyl-CoA esters, and thereby play a key role in lipid biosynthesis and fatty acid degradation. This isozyme is highly expressed in uterus and spleen, and in trace amounts in normal brain, but has markedly increased levels in malignant gliomas. This gene functions in mediating fatty acid-induced glioma cell growth. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACSL5 (Acyl-CoA Synthetase Long-Chain Family Member 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACSL5 include colorectal cancer. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include long-chain fatty acid-CoA ligase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACSBG2.	Acyl-CoA synthetases (ACSL) activate long-chain fatty acids for both synthesis of cellular lipids, and degradation via beta-oxidation. ACSL5 may activate fatty acids from exogenous sources for the synthesis of triacylglycerol destined for intracellular storage (By similarity). Utilizes a wide range of saturated fatty acids with a preference for C16-C18 unsaturated fatty acids (By similarity). It was suggested that it may also stimulate fatty acid oxidation (By similarity). At the villus tip of the crypt-villus axis of the small intestine may sensitize epithelial cells to apoptosis specifically triggered by the death ligand TRAIL. May have a role in the survival of glioma cells.	same
ACSS3	empty	ACSS3 (Acyl-CoA Synthetase Short-Chain Family Member 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACSS3 include fetal alcohol syndrome. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and ethanol degradation II. GO annotations related to this gene include acetate-CoA ligase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AACS.	Activates acetate so that it can be used for lipid synthesis or for energy generation.	same
ACTA1	The product encoded by this gene belongs to the actin family of proteins, which are highly conserved proteins that play a role in cell motility, structure and integrity. Alpha, beta and gamma actin isoforms have been identified, with alpha actins being a major constituent of the contractile apparatus, while beta and gamma actins are involved in the regulation of cell motility. This actin is an alpha actin that is found in skeletal muscle. Mutations in this gene cause nemaline myopathy type 3, congenital myopathy with excess of thin myofilaments, congenital myopathy with cores, and congenital myopathy with fiber-type disproportion, diseases that lead to muscle fiber defects. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACTA1 (Actin, Alpha 1, Skeletal Muscle) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACTA1 include myopathy, congenital, with fiber-type disproportion and nemaline myopathy 3, autosomal dominant or recessive. Among its related pathways are Akt Signaling and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include structural constituent of cytoskeleton and myosin binding. An important paralog of this gene is ACTB.	Actins are highly conserved proteins that are involved in various types of cell motility and are ubiquitously expressed in all eukaryotic cells	same
ACSM2B	empty	ACSM2B (Acyl-CoA Synthetase Medium-Chain Family Member 2B) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include butyrate-CoA ligase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACSM6.	Has medium-chain fatty acid:CoA ligase activity with broad substrate specificity (in vitro). Acts on acids from C(4) to C(11) and on the corresponding 3-hydroxy- and 2,3- or 3,4-unsaturated acids (in vitro).	same
ACRBP	The protein encoded by this gene is similar to proacrosin binding protein sp32 precursor found in mouse, guinea pig, and pig. This protein is located in the sperm acrosome and is thought to function as a binding protein to proacrosin for packaging and condensation of the acrosin zymogen in the acrosomal matrix. This protein is a member of the cancer/testis family of antigens and it is found to be immunogenic. In normal tissues, this mRNA is expressed only in testis, whereas it is detected in a range of different tumor types such as bladder, breast, lung, liver, and colon. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACRBP (Acrosin Binding Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACRBP include arteriolosclerosis.	May be involved in packaging and condensation of the acrosin zymogen in the acrosomal matrix via its association with proacrosin.	same
ACSF2	empty	ACSF2 (Acyl-CoA Synthetase Family Member 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include ligase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACSM2B.	Acyl-CoA synthases catalyze the initial reaction in fatty acid metabolism, by forming a thioester with CoA. Has some preference toward medium-chain substrates. Plays a role in adipocyte differentiation.	same
ACSBG2	empty	ACSBG2 (Acyl-CoA Synthetase Bubblegum Family Member 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Adipocytokine signaling pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include long-chain fatty acid-CoA ligase activity and acyl-CoA hydrolase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACSBG1.	Mediates activation of long-chain fatty acids for both synthesis of cellular lipids, and degradation via beta-oxidation. Able to activate long-chain fatty acids. Also able to activate very long-chain fatty acids; however, the relevance of such activity is unclear in vivo. Has increased ability to activate oleic and linoleic acid. May play a role in spermatogenesis	same
ACSM4	empty	ACSM4 (Acyl-CoA Synthetase Medium-Chain Family Member 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include butyrate-CoA ligase activity and fatty-acyl-CoA synthase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACSM2B.	Has medium-chain fatty acid:CoA ligase activity with broad substrate specificity (in vitro). Acts on acids from C(4) to C(11) and on the corresponding 3-hydroxy- and 2,3- or 3,4-unsaturated acids (in vitro) (By similarity).	same
ACSM2A	empty	ACSM2A (Acyl-CoA Synthetase Medium-Chain Family Member 2A) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include butyrate-CoA ligase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACSM2B.	Has medium-chain fatty acid:CoA ligase activity with broad substrate specificity (in vitro). Acts on acids from C(4) to C(11) and on the corresponding 3-hydroxy- and 2,3- or 3,4-unsaturated acids (in vitro) (By similarity).	same
ACTBL2	empty	ACTBL2 (Actin, Beta-Like 2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ACTB.	Actins are highly conserved proteins that are involved in various types of cell motility and are ubiquitously expressed in all eukaryotic cells.	same
ACTA2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the actin family of proteins, which are highly conserved proteins that play a role in cell motility, structure and integrity. Alpha, beta and gamma actin isoforms have been identified, with alpha actins being a major constituent of the contractile apparatus, while beta and gamma actins are involved in the regulation of cell motility. This actin is an alpha actin that is found in skeletal muscle. Defects in this gene cause aortic aneurysm familial thoracic type 6. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]	ACTA2 (Actin, Alpha 2, Smooth Muscle, Aorta) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACTA2 include aortic aneurysm, familial thoracic 6 and multisystemic smooth muscle dysfunction syndrome. Among its related pathways are Akt Signaling and ERK Signaling. An important paralog of this gene is ACTB.	Actins are highly conserved proteins that are involved in various types of cell motility and are ubiquitously expressed in all eukaryotic cells	same
ACSL1	The protein encoded by this gene is an isozyme of the long-chain fatty-acid-coenzyme A ligase family. Although differing in substrate specificity, subcellular localization, and tissue distribution, all isozymes of this family convert free long-chain fatty acids into fatty acyl-CoA esters, and thereby play a key role in lipid biosynthesis and fatty acid degradation. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2013]	ACSL1 (Acyl-CoA Synthetase Long-Chain Family Member 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include long-chain fatty acid-CoA ligase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACSBG2.	Activation of long-chain fatty acids for both synthesis of cellular lipids, and degradation via beta-oxidation. Preferentially uses palmitoleate, oleate and linoleate	same
ACTG1	Actins are highly conserved proteins that are involved in various types of cell motility, and maintenance of the cytoskeleton. In vertebrates, three main groups of actin isoforms, alpha, beta and gamma have been identified. The alpha actins are found in muscle tissues and are a major constituent of the contractile apparatus. The beta and gamma actins co-exist in most cell types as components of the cytoskeleton, and as mediators of internal cell motility. Actin, gamma 1, encoded by this gene, is a cytoplasmic actin found in non-muscle cells. Mutations in this gene are associated with DFNA20/26, a subtype of autosomal dominant non-syndromic sensorineural progressive hearing loss. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]	ACTG1 (Actin Gamma 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACTG1 include baraitser-winter syndrome 2 and deafness, autosomal dominant 20/26. Among its related pathways are Ras signaling pathway and Proteoglycans in cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and structural constituent of cytoskeleton. An important paralog of this gene is ACTB.	Actins are highly conserved proteins that are involved in various types of cell motility and are ubiquitously expressed in all eukaryotic cells	same
ACR	Acrosin is the major proteinase present in the acrosome of mature spermatozoa. It is a typical serine proteinase with trypsin-like specificity. It is stored in the acrosome in its precursor form, proacrosin. The active enzyme functions in the lysis of the zona pellucida, thus facilitating penetration of the sperm through the innermost glycoprotein layers of the ovum. The mRNA for proacrosin is synthesized only in the postmeiotic stages of spermatogenesis. In humans proacrosin first appears in the haploid spermatids. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACR (Acrosin) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Reproduction and Reproduction. GO annotations related to this gene include serine-type endopeptidase activity and drug binding. An important paralog of this gene is PRSS56.	Acrosin is the major protease of mammalian spermatozoa. It is a serine protease of trypsin-like cleavage specificity, it is synthesized in a zymogen form, proacrosin and stored in the acrosome	same
ACSL4	The protein encoded by this gene is an isozyme of the long-chain fatty-acid-coenzyme A ligase family. Although differing in substrate specificity, subcellular localization, and tissue distribution, all isozymes of this family convert free long-chain fatty acids into fatty acyl-CoA esters, and thereby play a key role in lipid biosynthesis and fatty acid degradation. This isozyme preferentially utilizes arachidonate as substrate. The absence of this enzyme may contribute to the mental retardation or Alport syndrome. Alternative splicing of this gene generates 2 transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACSL4 (Acyl-CoA Synthetase Long-Chain Family Member 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACSL4 include alport syndrome - intellectual disability - midface hypoplasia - elliptocytosis and alport syndrome, mental retardation, midface hypoplasia, and elliptocytosis. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include long-chain fatty acid-CoA ligase activity and arachidonate-CoA ligase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACSL3.	Activation of long-chain fatty acids for both synthesis of cellular lipids, and degradation via beta-oxidation. Preferentially uses arachidonate and eicosapentaenoate as substrates	same
ACSM5	empty	ACSM5 (Acyl-CoA Synthetase Medium-Chain Family Member 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding and butyrate-CoA ligase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACSM2B.	Has medium-chain fatty acid:CoA ligase activity with broad substrate specificity (in vitro). Acts on acids from C(4) to C(11) and on the corresponding 3-hydroxy- and 2,3- or 3,4-unsaturated acids (in vitro) (By similarity).	same
ACTL8	empty	ACTL8 (Actin-Like 8) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ACTL7B.	empty	same
ACTC1	Actins are highly conserved proteins that are involved in various types of cell motility. Polymerization of globular actin (G-actin) leads to a structural filament (F-actin) in the form of a two-stranded helix. Each actin can bind to four others. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the actin family which is comprised of three main groups of actin isoforms, alpha, beta, and gamma. The alpha actins are found in muscle tissues and are a major constituent of the contractile apparatus. Defects in this gene have been associated with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (IDC) and familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (FHC). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACTC1 (Actin, Alpha, Cardiac Muscle 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACTC1 include cardiomyopathy, dilated, 1r and cardiomyopathy, familial hypertrophic, 11. Among its related pathways are Cardiac Progenitor Differentiation and Cytoskeletal Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase activity and myosin binding. An important paralog of this gene is ACTB.	Actins are highly conserved proteins that are involved in various types of cell motility and are ubiquitously expressed in all eukaryotic cells	same
ACSS1	This gene encodes a mitochondrial acetyl-CoA synthetase enzyme. A similar protein in mice plays an important role in the tricarboxylic acid cycle by catalyzing the conversion of acetate to acetyl CoA. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]	ACSS1 (Acyl-CoA Synthetase Short-Chain Family Member 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Regulation of Cholesterol Biosynthesis by SREBP (SREBF) and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include AMP binding and acetate-CoA ligase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACSM2B.	Important for maintaining normal body temperature during fasting and for energy homeostasis. Essential for energy expenditure under ketogenic conditions (By similarity). Converts acetate to acetyl-CoA so that it can be used for oxidation through the tricarboxylic cycle to produce ATP and CO(2).	same
ACSM1	empty	ACSM1 (Acyl-CoA Synthetase Medium-Chain Family Member 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding and fatty acid ligase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACSM2B.	Has medium-chain fatty acid:CoA ligase activity with broad substrate specificity (in vitro). Acts on acids from C(4) to C(11) and on the corresponding 3-hydroxy- and 2,3- or 3,4-unsaturated acids (in vitro). Functions as GTP-dependent lipoate-activating enzyme that generates the substrate for lipoyltransferase (By similarity).	same
ACSL6	The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the formation of acyl-CoA from fatty acids, ATP, and CoA, using magnesium as a cofactor. The encoded protein plays a major role in fatty acid metabolism in the brain. Translocations with the ETV6 gene are causes of myelodysplastic syndrome with basophilia, acute myelogenous leukemia with eosinophilia, and acute eosinophilic leukemia. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2011]	ACSL6 (Acyl-CoA Synthetase Long-Chain Family Member 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACSL6 include myelodysplastic syndrome. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and long-chain fatty acid-CoA ligase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACSBG2.	Activation of long-chain fatty acids for both synthesis of cellular lipids, and degradation via beta-oxidation. Plays an important role in fatty acid metabolism in brain and the acyl-CoAs produced may be utilized exclusively for the synthesis of the brain lipid	same
ACTN3	This gene encodes a member of the alpha-actin binding protein gene family. The encoded protein is primarily expressed in skeletal muscle and functions as a structural component of sarcomeric Z line. This protein is involved in crosslinking actin containing thin filaments. An allelic polymorphism in this gene results in both coding and non-coding variants; the reference genome represents the coding allele. The non-functional allele of this gene is associated with elite athlete status. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2014]	ACTN3 (Actinin, Alpha 3 (Gene/Pseudogene)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACTN3 include mcardle disease and dystrophinopathies. Among its related pathways are Regulation of actin cytoskeleton and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and actin binding.	F-actin cross-linking protein which is thought to anchor actin to a variety of intracellular structures. This is a bundling protein	same
ACTG2	Actins are highly conserved proteins that are involved in various types of cell motility and in the maintenance of the cytoskeleton. Three types of actins, alpha, beta and gamma, have been identified in vertebrates. Alpha actins are found in muscle tissues and are a major constituent of the contractile apparatus. The beta and gamma actins co-exist in most cell types as components of the cytoskeleton and as mediators of internal cell motility. This gene encodes actin gamma 2; a smooth muscle actin found in enteric tissues. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. Based on similarity to peptide cleavage of related actins, the mature protein of this gene is formed by removal of two N-terminal peptides.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]	ACTG2 (Actin, Gamma 2, Smooth Muscle, Enteric) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACTG2 include visceral myopathy and myopathic intestinal pseudoobstruction. Among its related pathways are Akt Signaling and ERK Signaling. An important paralog of this gene is ACTB.	Actins are highly conserved proteins that are involved in various types of cell motility and are ubiquitously expressed in all eukaryotic cells	same
ACTB	This gene encodes one of six different actin proteins. Actins are highly conserved proteins that are involved in cell motility, structure, and integrity. This actin is a major constituent of the contractile apparatus and one of the two nonmuscle cytoskeletal actins. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACTB (Actin, Beta) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACTB include dystonia, juvenile-onset and baraitser-winter syndrome 1. Among its related pathways are Ras signaling pathway and Proteoglycans in cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and kinesin binding. An important paralog of this gene is ACTRT1.	Actins are highly conserved proteins that are involved in various types of cell motility and are ubiquitously expressed in all eukaryotic cells	same
ACTR1A	This gene encodes a 42.6 kD subunit of dynactin, a macromolecular complex consisting of 10-11 subunits ranging in size from 22 to 150 kD. Dynactin binds to both microtubules and cytoplasmic dynein. It is involved in a diverse array of cellular functions, including ER-to-Golgi transport, the centripetal movement of lysosomes and endosomes, spindle formation, chromosome movement, nuclear positioning, and axonogenesis. This subunit is present in 8-13 copies per dynactin molecule, and is the most abundant molecule in the dynactin complex. It is an actin-related protein, and is approximately 60% identical at the amino acid level to conventional actin. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACTR1A (ARP1 Actin-Related Protein 1 Homolog A, Centractin Alpha (Yeast)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. An important paralog of this gene is ACTB.	Component of a multi-subunit complex involved in microtubule based vesicle motility. It is associated with the centrosome	same
ACTL6A	This gene encodes a family member of actin-related proteins (ARPs), which share significant amino acid sequence identity to conventional actins. Both actins and ARPs have an actin fold, which is an ATP-binding cleft, as a common feature. The ARPs are involved in diverse cellular processes, including vesicular transport, spindle orientation, nuclear migration and chromatin remodeling. This gene encodes a 53 kDa subunit protein of the BAF (BRG1/brm-associated factor) complex in mammals, which is functionally related to SWI/SNF complex in S. cerevisiae and Drosophila; the latter is thought to facilitate transcriptional activation of specific genes by antagonizing chromatin-mediated transcriptional repression. Together with beta-actin, it is required for maximal ATPase activity of BRG1, and for the association of the BAF complex with chromatin/matrix. Three transcript variants that encode two different protein isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACTL6A (Actin-Like 6A) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Transcription Ligand-dependent activation of the ESR1/SP pathway and Prostate Cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include chromatin binding and transcription coactivator activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACTL6B.	Involved in transcriptional activation and repression of select genes by chromatin remodeling (alteration of DNA-nucleosome topology). Required for maximal ATPase activity of SMARCA4/BRG1/BAF190A and for association of the SMARCA4/BRG1/BAF190A containing remodeling complex BAF with chromatin/nuclear matrix. Belongs to the neural progenitors-specific chromatin remodeling complex (npBAF complex) and is required for the proliferation of neural progenitors. During neural development a switch from a stem/progenitor to a post-mitotic chromatin remodeling mechanism occurs as neurons exit the cell cycle and become committed to their adult state. The transition from proliferating neural stem/progenitor cells to post-mitotic neurons requires a switch in subunit composition of the npBAF and nBAF complexes. As neural progenitors exit mitosis and differentiate into neurons, npBAF complexes which contain ACTL6A/BAF53A and PHF10/BAF45A, are exchanged for homologous alternative ACTL6B/BAF53B and DPF1/BAF45B or DPF3/BAF45C subunits in neuron-specific complexes (nBAF). The npBAF complex is essential for the self-renewal/proliferative capacity of the multipotent neural stem cells. The nBAF complex along with CREST plays a role regulating the activity of genes essential for dendrite growth (By similarity). Component of the NuA4 histone acetyltransferase (HAT) complex which is involved in transcriptional activation of select genes principally by acetylation of nucleosomal histones H4 and H2A. This modification may both alter nucleosome - DNA interactions and promote interaction of the modified histones with other proteins which positively regulate transcription. This complex may be required for the activation of transcriptional programs associated with oncogene and proto-oncogene mediated growth induction, tumor suppressor mediated growth arrest and replicative senescence, apoptosis, and DNA repair. NuA4 may also play a direct role in DNA repair when recruited to sites of DNA damage. Putative core component of the chromatin remodeling INO80 complex which is involved in transcriptional regulation, DNA replication and probably DNA repair.	same
ACTR10	empty	ACTR10 (Actin-Related Protein 10 Homolog (S. Cerevisiae)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cytoskeleton remodeling Neurofilaments and Cell cycle_Spindle assembly and chromosome separation.	empty	same
ACSS2	This gene encodes a cytosolic enzyme that catalyzes the activation of acetate for use in lipid synthesis and energy generation. The protein acts as a monomer and produces acetyl-CoA from acetate in a reaction that requires ATP. Expression of this gene is regulated by sterol regulatory element-binding proteins, transcription factors that activate genes required for the synthesis of cholesterol and unsaturated fatty acids. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009]	ACSS2 (Acyl-CoA Synthetase Short-Chain Family Member 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include AMP binding and acetate-CoA ligase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACSM2B.	Activates acetate so that it can be used for lipid synthesis or for energy generation	same
ACTN4	Alpha actinins belong to the spectrin gene superfamily which represents a diverse group of cytoskeletal proteins, including the alpha and beta spectrins and dystrophins. Alpha actinin is an actin-binding protein with multiple roles in different cell types. In nonmuscle cells, the cytoskeletal isoform is found along microfilament bundles and adherens-type junctions, where it is involved in binding actin to the membrane. In contrast, skeletal, cardiac, and smooth muscle isoforms are localized to the Z-disc and analogous dense bodies, where they help anchor the myofibrillar actin filaments. This gene encodes a nonmuscle, alpha actinin isoform which is concentrated in the cytoplasm, and thought to be involved in metastatic processes. Mutations in this gene have been associated with focal and segmental glomerulosclerosis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACTN4 (Actinin, Alpha 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACTN4 include glomerulosclerosis, focal segmental, 1 and glomerulosclerosis. Among its related pathways are Regulation of actin cytoskeleton and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and actin binding. An important paralog of this gene is ACTN2.	F-actin cross-linking protein which is thought to anchor actin to a variety of intracellular structures. This is a bundling protein (Probable). Probably involved in vesicular trafficking via its association with the CART complex. The CART complex is necessary for efficient transferrin receptor recycling but not for EGFR degradation (PubMed:15772161). Involved in tight junction assembly in epithelial cells probably through interaction with MICALL2. Links MICALL2 to the actin cytoskeleton and recruits it to the tight junctions (By similarity). May also function as a transcriptional coactivator, stimulating transcription mediated by the nuclear hormone receptors PPARG and RARA (PubMed:22351778).	same
ACTR1B	This gene encodes a 42.3 kD subunit of dynactin, a macromolecular complex consisting of 10 subunits ranging in size from 22 to 150 kD. Dynactin binds to both microtubules and cytoplasmic dynein and is involved in a diverse array of cellular functions, including ER-to-Golgi transport, the centripetal movement of lysosomes and endosomes, spindle formation, chromosome movement, nuclear positioning, and axonogenesis. This subunit, like ACTR1A, is an actin-related protein. These two proteins, which are of equal length and share 90% amino acid identity, are present in a constant ratio of approximately 1:15 in the dynactin complex. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]	ACTR1B (ARP1 Actin-Related Protein 1 Homolog B, Centractin Beta (Yeast)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and MHC class II antigen presentation. An important paralog of this gene is ACTB.	Component of a multi-subunit complex involved in microtubule based vesicle motility. It is associated with the centrosome	same
ACTL9	empty	ACTL9 (Actin-Like 9) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACTL9 include colorectal cancer. An important paralog of this gene is ACTL7B.	empty	same
ACTL7B	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of a family of actin-related proteins (ARPs) which share significant amino acid sequence identity to conventional actins. Both actins and ARPs have an actin fold, which is an ATP-binding cleft, as a common feature. The ARPs are involved in diverse cellular processes, including vesicular transport, spindle orientation, nuclear migration and chromatin remodeling. This gene (ACTL7B), and related gene, ACTL7A, are intronless, and are located approximately 4 kb apart in a head-to-head orientation within the familial dysautonomia candidate region on 9q31. Based on mutational analysis of the ACTL7B gene in patients with this disorder, it was concluded that it is unlikely to be involved in the pathogenesis of dysautonomia. Unlike ACTL7A, the ACTL7B gene is expressed predominantly in the testis, however, its exact function is not known. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACTL7B (Actin-Like 7B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACTL7B include hypertensive nephropathy. GO annotations related to this gene include structural constituent of cytoskeleton. An important paralog of this gene is ACTL10.	empty	same
ACTR3C	empty	ACTR3C (ARP3 Actin-Related Protein 3 Homolog C (Yeast)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACTR3C include lung adenoma. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding. An important paralog of this gene is ACTR3B.	May play a role in the suppression of metastatic potential in lung adenoma carcinoma cells.	same
ACTL6B	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of a family of actin-related proteins (ARPs) which share significant amino acid sequence identity to conventional actins. Both actins and ARPs have an actin fold, which is an ATP-binding cleft, as a common feature. The ARPs are involved in diverse cellular processes, including vesicular transport, spindle orientation, nuclear migration and chromatin remodeling. This gene encodes a subunit of the BAF (BRG1/brm-associated factor) complex in mammals, which is functionally related to SWI/SNF complex in S. cerevisiae and Drosophila; the latter is thought to facilitate transcriptional activation of specific genes by antagonizing chromatin-mediated transcriptional repression. This subunit may be involved in the regulation of genes by structural modulation of their chromatin, specifically in the brain. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACTL6B (Actin-Like 6B) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Transcription Ligand-dependent activation of the ESR1/SP pathway and Prostate Cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include transcription coactivator activity and structural constituent of cytoskeleton. An important paralog of this gene is ACTL6A.	Belongs to the chromatin remodeling brain-specific BAF (bBAF) complex, as such plays a role in remodeling mononucleosomes in an ATP-dependent fashion. Belongs to the neuron-specific chromatin remodeling complex (nBAF complex) and is required for postmitotic neural development and dendritic outgrowth. During neural development a switch from a stem/progenitor to a post-mitotic chromatin remodeling mechanism occurs as neurons exit the cell cycle and become committed to their adult state. The transition from proliferating neural stem/progenitor cells to post-mitotic neurons requires a switch in subunit composition of the npBAF and nBAF complexes. As neural progenitors exit mitosis and differentiate into neurons, npBAF complexes which contain ACTL6A/BAF53A and PHF10/BAF45A, are exchanged for homologous alternative ACTL6B/BAF53B and DPF1/BAF45B or DPF3/BAF45C subunits in neuron-specific complexes (nBAF). The npBAF complex is essential for the self-renewal/proliferative capacity of the multipotent neural stem cells. The nBAF complex along with CREST plays a role regulating the activity of genes essential for dendrite growth. ACTL6B/BAF53B is not essential for assembly of the nBAF complex but is required for targeting the complex and CREST to the promoter of genes essential for dendritic growth (By similarity).	same
ACTR8	empty	ACTR8 (ARP8 Actin-Related Protein 8 Homolog (Yeast)) is a Protein Coding gene.	Plays an important role in the functional organization of mitotic chromosomes. Exhibits low basal ATPase activity, and unable to polymerize	same
ACTN1	Alpha actinins belong to the spectrin gene superfamily which represents a diverse group of cytoskeletal proteins, including the alpha and beta spectrins and dystrophins. Alpha actinin is an actin-binding protein with multiple roles in different cell types. In nonmuscle cells, the cytoskeletal isoform is found along microfilament bundles and adherens-type junctions, where it is involved in binding actin to the membrane. In contrast, skeletal, cardiac, and smooth muscle isoforms are localized to the Z-disc and analogous dense bodies, where they help anchor the myofibrillar actin filaments. This gene encodes a nonmuscle, cytoskeletal, alpha actinin isoform and maps to the same site as the structurally similar erythroid beta spectrin gene. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACTN1 (Actinin, Alpha 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACTN1 include bleeding disorder, platelet-type, 15 and autosomal dominant macrothrombocytopenia. Among its related pathways are Regulation of actin cytoskeleton and Regulation of actin cytoskeleton. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and integrin binding. An important paralog of this gene is ACTN2.	F-actin cross-linking protein which is thought to anchor actin to a variety of intracellular structures. This is a bundling protein	same
ACTR6	empty	ACTR6 (ARP6 Actin-Related Protein 6 Homolog (Yeast)) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
ACTL7A	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of a family of actin-related proteins (ARPs) which share significant amino acid sequence identity to conventional actins. Both actins and ARPs have an actin fold, which is an ATP-binding cleft, as a common feature. The ARPs are involved in diverse cellular processes, including vesicular transport, spindle orientation, nuclear migration and chromatin remodeling. This gene (ACTL7A), and related gene, ACTL7B, are intronless, and are located approximately 4 kb apart in a head-to-head orientation within the familial dysautonomia candidate region on 9q31. Based on mutational analysis of the ACTL7A gene in patients with this disorder, it was concluded that it is unlikely to be involved in the pathogenesis of dysautonomia. The ACTL7A gene is expressed in a wide variety of adult tissues, however, its exact function is not known. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACTL7A (Actin-Like 7A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACTL7A include hypertensive nephropathy. GO annotations related to this gene include structural constituent of cytoskeleton. An important paralog of this gene is ACTL7B.	empty	same
ACVR1	Activins are dimeric growth and differentiation factors which belong to the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) superfamily of structurally related signaling proteins. Activins signal through a heteromeric complex of receptor serine kinases which include at least two type I ( I and IB) and two type II (II and IIB) receptors. These receptors are all transmembrane proteins, composed of a ligand-binding extracellular domain with cysteine-rich region, a transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic domain with predicted serine/threonine specificity. Type I receptors are essential for signaling; and type II receptors are required for binding ligands and for expression of type I receptors. Type I and II receptors form a stable complex after ligand binding, resulting in phosphorylation of type I receptors by type II receptors. This gene encodes activin A type I receptor which signals a particular transcriptional response in concert with activin type II receptors. Mutations in this gene are associated with fibrodysplasia ossificans progressive. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACVR1 (Activin A Receptor, Type I) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACVR1 include fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva and osteochondroma. Among its related pathways are Akt Signaling and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and protein kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is TGFBR2.	On ligand binding, forms a receptor complex consisting of two type II and two type I transmembrane serine/threonine kinases. Type II receptors phosphorylate and activate type I receptors which autophosphorylate, then bind and activate SMAD transcriptional regulators. Receptor for activin. May be involved for left-right pattern formation during embryogenesis (By similarity).	same
ACVR1C	ACVR1C is a type I receptor for the TGFB (see MIM 190180) family of signaling molecules. Upon ligand binding, type I receptors phosphorylate cytoplasmic SMAD transcription factors, which then translocate to the nucleus and interact directly with DNA or in complex with other transcription factors (Bondestam et al., 2001 [PubMed 12063393]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	ACVR1C (Activin A Receptor, Type IC) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACVR1C include myositis ossificans. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and L1CAM interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include transforming growth factor beta-activated receptor activity and nodal binding. An important paralog of this gene is TGFBR2.	Serine/threonine protein kinase which forms a receptor complex on ligand binding. The receptor complex consisting of 2 type II and 2 type I transmembrane serine/threonine kinases. Type II receptors phosphorylate and activate type I receptors which autophosphorylate, then bind and activate SMAD transcriptional regulators, SMAD2 and SMAD3. Receptor for activin AB, activin B and NODAL. Plays a role in cell differentiation, growth arrest and apoptosis.	same
ACTN2	Alpha actinins belong to the spectrin gene superfamily which represents a diverse group of cytoskeletal proteins, including the alpha and beta spectrins and dystrophins. Alpha actinin is an actin-binding protein with multiple roles in different cell types. In nonmuscle cells, the cytoskeletal isoform is found along microfilament bundles and adherens-type junctions, where it is involved in binding actin to the membrane. In contrast, skeletal, cardiac, and smooth muscle isoforms are localized to the Z-disc and analogous dense bodies, where they help anchor the myofibrillar actin filaments. This gene encodes a muscle-specific, alpha actinin isoform that is expressed in both skeletal and cardiac muscles. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2013]	ACTN2 (Actinin, Alpha 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACTN2 include cardiomyopathy, dilated, 1aa and actn2-related dilated cardiomyopathy. Among its related pathways are Regulation of actin cytoskeleton and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and protein dimerization activity. An important paralog of this gene is SPTBN5.	F-actin cross-linking protein which is thought to anchor actin to a variety of intracellular structures. This is a bundling protein	same
ACVRL1	This gene encodes a type I cell-surface receptor for the TGF-beta superfamily of ligands. It shares with other type I receptors a high degree of similarity in serine-threonine kinase subdomains, a glycine- and serine-rich region (called the GS domain) preceding the kinase domain, and a short C-terminal tail. The encoded protein, sometimes termed ALK1, shares similar domain structures with other closely related ALK or activin receptor-like kinase proteins that form a subfamily of receptor serine/threonine kinases. Mutations in this gene are associated with hemorrhagic telangiectasia type 2, also known as Rendu-Osler-Weber syndrome 2. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACVRL1 (Activin A Receptor Type II-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACVRL1 include telangiectasia, hereditary hemorrhagic, type 2 and acvrl1-related hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia. Among its related pathways are Akt Signaling and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and SMAD binding. An important paralog of this gene is TGFBR2.	Type I receptor for TGF-beta family ligands BMP9/GDF2 and BMP10 and important regulator of normal blood vessel development. On ligand binding, forms a receptor complex consisting of two type II and two type I transmembrane serine/threonine kinases. Type II receptors phosphorylate and activate type I receptors which autophosphorylate, then bind and activate SMAD transcriptional regulators. May bind activin as well.	same
ACTR2	The specific function of this gene has not yet been determined; however, the protein it encodes is known to be a major constituent of the ARP2/3 complex. This complex is located at the cell surface and is essential to cell shape and motility through lamellipodial actin assembly and protrusion. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACTR2 (ARP2 Actin-Related Protein 2 Homolog (Yeast)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACTR2 include wiskott-aldrich syndrome. Among its related pathways are RhoGDI Pathway and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding. An important paralog of this gene is ACTL7B.	Functions as ATP-binding component of the Arp2/3 complex which is involved in regulation of actin polymerization and together with an activating nucleation-promoting factor (NPF) mediates the formation of branched actin networks. Seems to contact the pointed end of the daughter actin filament.	same
ACTRT1	This gene encodes a protein related to the cytoskeletal protein beta-actin. This protein is a major component of the calyx in the perinuclear theca of mammalian sperm heads, and it therefore likely functions in spermatid formation. This gene is intronless and is similar to a related gene located on chromosome 1. A related pseudogene has also been identified approximately 75 kb downstream of this gene on chromosome X. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	ACTRT1 (Actin-Related Protein T1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are PAK Pathway and Phospholipase-C Pathway. An important paralog of this gene is ACTB.	empty	same
ADAD1	empty	ADAD1 (Adenosine Deaminase Domain Containing 1 (Testis-Specific)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and adenosine deaminase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADARB2.	Plays a role in spermatogenesis. Binds to RNA but not to DNA (By similarity).	same
ACTR5	empty	ACTR5 (ARP5 Actin-Related Protein 5 Homolog (Yeast)) is a Protein Coding gene.	Proposed core component of the chromatin remodeling INO80 complex which is involved in transcriptional regulation, DNA replication and probably DNA repair. Involved in DNA double-strand break repair and UV-damage excision repair.	same
ADAM10	Members of the ADAM family are cell surface proteins with a unique structure possessing both potential adhesion and protease domains. This gene encodes and ADAM family member that cleaves many proteins including TNF-alpha and E-cadherin. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADAM10 (ADAM Metallopeptidase Domain 10) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADAM10 include reticulate acropigmentation of kitamura and alzheimer disease 18. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and receptor binding. An important paralog of this gene is ADAM17.	Cleaves the membrane-bound precursor of TNF-alpha at 76-Ala- -Val-77 to its mature soluble form. Responsible for the proteolytical release of soluble JAM3 from endothelial cells surface. Responsible for the proteolytic release of several other cell-surface proteins, including heparin-binding epidermal growth-like factor, ephrin-A2 and for constitutive and regulated alpha-secretase cleavage of amyloid precursor protein (APP). Contributes to the normal cleavage of the cellular prion protein. Involved in the cleavage of the adhesion molecule L1 at the cell surface and in released membrane vesicles, suggesting a vesicle-based protease activity. Controls also the proteolytic processing of Notch and mediates lateral inhibition during neurogenesis. Responsible for the FasL ectodomain shedding and for the generation of the remnant ADAM10-processed FasL (FasL APL) transmembrane form. Also cleaves the ectodomain of the integral membrane proteins CORIN and ITM2B. May regulate the EFNA5-EPHA3 signaling.	same
ACTR3	The specific function of this gene has not yet been determined; however, the protein it encodes is known to be a major constituent of the ARP2/3 complex. This complex is located at the cell surface and is essential to cell shape and motility through lamellipodial actin assembly and protrusion. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2013]	ACTR3 (ARP3 Actin-Related Protein 3 Homolog (Yeast)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are RhoGDI Pathway and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding. An important paralog of this gene is ACTR3B.	Functions as ATP-binding component of the Arp2/3 complex which is involved in regulation of actin polymerization and together with an activating nucleation-promoting factor (NPF) mediates the formation of branched actin networks. Seems to contact the pointed end of the daughter actin filament. Plays a role in ciliogenesis.	same
ACVR2B	Activins are dimeric growth and differentiation factors which belong to the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) superfamily of structurally related signaling proteins. Activins signal through a heteromeric complex of receptor serine kinases which include at least two type I (I and IB) and two type II (II and IIB) receptors. These receptors are all transmembrane proteins, composed of a ligand-binding extracellular domain with cysteine-rich region, a transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic domain with predicted serine/threonine specificity. Type I receptors are essential for signaling; and type II receptors are required for binding ligands and for expression of type I receptors. Type I and II receptors form a stable complex after ligand binding, resulting in phosphorylation of type I receptors by type II receptors. Type II receptors are considered to be constitutively active kinases. This gene encodes activin A type IIB receptor, which displays a 3- to 4-fold higher affinity for the ligand than activin A type II receptor. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACVR2B (Activin A Receptor, Type IIB) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACVR2B include heterotaxy, visceral, 4, autosomal and acvr2b-related visceral heterotaxy. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and L1CAM interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and protein serine/threonine/tyrosine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is TGFBR2.	Transmembrane serine/threonine kinase activin type-2 receptor forming an activin receptor complex with activin type-1 serine/threonine kinase receptors (ACVR1, ACVR1B or ACVR1c). Transduces the activin signal from the cell surface to the cytoplasm and is thus regulating many physiological and pathological processes including neuronal differentiation and neuronal survival, hair follicle development and cycling, FSH production by the pituitary gland, wound healing, extracellular matrix production, immunosuppression and carcinogenesis. Activin is also thought to have a paracrine or autocrine role in follicular development in the ovary. Within the receptor complex, the type-2 receptors act as a primary activin receptors (binds activin-A/INHBA, activin-B/INHBB as well as inhibin-A/INHA-INHBA). The type-1 receptors like ACVR1B act as downstream transducers of activin signals. Activin binds to type-2 receptor at the plasma membrane and activates its serine-threonine kinase. The activated receptor type-2 then phosphorylates and activates the type-1 receptor. Once activated, the type-1 receptor binds and phosphorylates the SMAD proteins SMAD2 and SMAD3, on serine residues of the C-terminal tail. Soon after their association with the activin receptor and subsequent phosphorylation, SMAD2 and SMAD3 are released into the cytoplasm where they interact with the common partner SMAD4. This SMAD complex translocates into the nucleus where it mediates activin-induced transcription. Inhibitory SMAD7, which is recruited to ACVR1B through FKBP1A, can prevent the association of SMAD2 and SMAD3 with the activin receptor complex, thereby blocking the activin signal. Activin signal transduction is also antagonized by the binding to the receptor of inhibin-B via the IGSF1 inhibin coreceptor.	same
ACY3	empty	ACY3 (Aminoacylase 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACY3 include hepatitis c and hepatitis c virus. Among its related pathways are Alanine, aspartate and glutamate metabolism and Histidine metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and aminoacylase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ASPA.	Plays an important role in deacetylating mercapturic acids in kidney proximal tubules. Also acts on N-acetyl-aromatic amino acids (By similarity).	same
ADAM15	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase) protein family. ADAM family members are type I transmembrane glycoproteins known to be involved in cell adhesion and proteolytic ectodomain processing of cytokines and adhesion molecules. This protein contains multiple functional domains including a zinc-binding metalloprotease domain, a disintegrin-like domain, as well as a EGF-like domain. Through its disintegrin-like domain, this protein specifically interacts with the integrin beta chain, beta 3. It also interacts with Src family protein-tyrosine kinases in a phosphorylation-dependent manner, suggesting that this protein may function in cell-cell adhesion as well as in cellular signaling. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been observed. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADAM15 (ADAM Metallopeptidase Domain 15) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Degradation of the extracellular matrix and Notch Signaling Pathway (sino). GO annotations related to this gene include SH3 domain binding and metallopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAM33.	Active metalloproteinase with gelatinolytic and collagenolytic activity. Plays a role in the wound healing process. Mediates both heterotypic intraepithelial cell/T-cell interactions and homotypic T-cell aggregation. Inhibits beta-1 integrin-mediated cell adhesion and migration of airway smooth muscle cells. Suppresses cell motility on or towards fibronectin possibly by driving alpha-v/beta-1 integrin (ITAGV-ITGB1) cell surface expression via ERK1/2 inactivation. Cleaves E-cadherin in response to growth factor deprivation. Plays a role in glomerular cell migration. Plays a role in pathological neovascularization. May play a role in cartilage remodeling. May be proteolytically processed, during sperm epididymal maturation and the acrosome reaction. May play a role in sperm-egg binding through its disintegrin domain.	same
ADAM12	This gene encodes a member of a family of proteins that are structurally related to snake venom disintegrins and have been implicated in a variety of biological processes involving cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions, including fertilization, muscle development, and neurogenesis. Expression of this gene has been used as a maternal serum marker for pre-natal development. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. Shorter isoforms are secreted, while longer isoforms are membrane-bound form. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2014]	ADAM12 (ADAM Metallopeptidase Domain 12) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include SH3 domain binding and metallopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAM33.	Involved in skeletal muscle regeneration, specifically at the onset of cell fusion. Also involved in macrophage-derived giant cells (MGC) and osteoclast formation from mononuclear precursors (By similarity).	same
ACYP2	Acylphosphatase can hydrolyze the phosphoenzyme intermediate of different membrane pumps, particularly the Ca2+/Mg2+-ATPase from sarcoplasmic reticulum of skeletal muscle. Two isoenzymes have been isolated, called muscle acylphosphatase and erythrocyte acylphosphatase on the basis of their tissue localization. This gene encodes the muscle-type isoform (MT). An increase of the MT isoform is associated with muscle differentiation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACYP2 (Acylphosphatase 2, Muscle Type) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Pyruvate metabolism and Purine metabolism (KEGG). GO annotations related to this gene include acylphosphatase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACYP1.	Its physiological role is not yet clear	same
ADAM19	This gene encodes a member of the ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloprotease domain) family. Members of this family are membrane-anchored proteins structurally related to snake venom disintegrins and have been implicated in a variety of biological processes involving cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions, including fertilization, muscle development, and neurogenesis. This member is a type I transmembrane protein and serves as a marker for dendritic cell differentiation. It has been demonstrated to be an active metalloproteinase, which may be involved in normal physiological processes such as cell migration, cell adhesion, cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions, and signal transduction. It is proposed to play a role in pathological processes, such as cancer, inflammatory diseases, renal diseases, and Alzheimer's disease. [provided by RefSeq, May 2013]	ADAM19 (ADAM Metallopeptidase Domain 19) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include SH3 domain binding and metalloendopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAM33.	Participates in the proteolytic processing of beta-type neuregulin isoforms which are involved in neurogenesis and synaptogenesis, suggesting a regulatory role in glial cell. Also cleaves alpha-2 macroglobulin. May be involved in osteoblast differentiation and/or osteoblast activity in bone (By similarity).	same
ADAM21P1	empty	ADAM21P1 (ADAM Metallopeptidase Domain 21 Pseudogene 1) is a Pseudogene. Diseases associated with ADAM21P1 include adult t-cell leukemia.	empty	same
ACVR2A	This gene encodes a receptor that mediates the functions of activins, which are members of the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) superfamily involved in diverse biological processes. The encoded protein is a transmembrane serine-threonine kinase receptor which mediates signaling by forming heterodimeric complexes with various combinations of type I and type II receptors and ligands in a cell-specific manner. The encoded type II receptor is primarily involved in ligand-binding and includes an extracellular ligand-binding domain, a transmembrane domain and a cytoplasmic serine-threonine kinase domain. This gene may be associated with susceptibility to preeclampsia, a pregnancy-related disease which can result in maternal and fetal morbidity and mortality. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants of this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2013]	ACVR2A (Activin A Receptor, Type IIA) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACVR2A include multiple synostoses syndrome. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and L1CAM interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include PDZ domain binding and growth factor binding. An important paralog of this gene is TGFBR2.	On ligand binding, forms a receptor complex consisting of two type II and two type I transmembrane serine/threonine kinases. Type II receptors phosphorylate and activate type I receptors which autophosphorylate, then bind and activate SMAD transcriptional regulators. Receptor for activin A, activin B and inhibin A	same
ADAM17	This gene encodes a member of the ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloprotease domain) family. Members of this family are membrane-anchored proteins structurally related to snake venom disintegrins, and have been implicated in a variety of biologic processes involving cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions, including fertilization, muscle development, and neurogenesis. The protein encoded by this gene functions as a tumor necrosis factor-alpha converting enzyme; binds mitotic arrest deficient 2 protein; and also plays a prominent role in the activation of the Notch signaling pathway. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADAM17 (ADAM Metallopeptidase Domain 17) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADAM17 include inflammatory skin and bowel disease, neonatal, 1 and neonatal inflammatory skin and bowel disease. Among its related pathways are PI-3K cascade and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include SH3 domain binding and integrin binding. An important paralog of this gene is ADAM10.	Cleaves the membrane-bound precursor of TNF-alpha to its mature soluble form. Responsible for the proteolytical release of soluble JAM3 from endothelial cells surface. Responsible for the proteolytic release of several other cell-surface proteins, including p75 TNF-receptor, interleukin 1 receptor type II, p55 TNF-receptor, transforming growth factor-alpha, L-selectin, growth hormone receptor, MUC1 and the amyloid precursor protein. Acts as an activator of Notch pathway by mediating cleavage of Notch, generating the membrane-associated intermediate fragment called Notch extracellular truncation (NEXT). Plays a role in the proteolytic processing of ACE2.	same
ADAM21	This gene encodes a member of the ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloprotease domain) family. Members of this family are membrane-anchored proteins structurally related to snake venom disintegrins, and have been implicated in a variety of biological processes involving cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions, including fertilization, muscle development, and neurogenesis. The expression of this gene expression is testis-specific. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]	ADAM21 (ADAM Metallopeptidase Domain 21) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Reproduction and Reproduction. GO annotations related to this gene include metalloendopeptidase activity and metallopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAM33.	May be involved in sperm maturation and/or fertilization. May also be involved in epithelia functions associated with establishing and maintaining gradients of ions or nutrients	same
ACTRT2	The protein encoded by this intronless gene belongs to the actin family. Studies have shown that this protein may be involved in cytoskeletal organization similar to other cytoplasmic actin-related protein (ARP) subfamily members. Antibody raised against the human protein has been used to detect the protein by immunoblotting and immunofluorescence microscopy, demonstrating its specific synthesis in the testis, late in spermatid differentiation, and its localization in the calyx. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACTRT2 (Actin-Related Protein T2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ACTB.	empty	same
ACVR1B	This gene encodes an activin A type IB receptor. Activins are dimeric growth and differentiation factors which belong to the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) superfamily of structurally related signaling proteins. Activins signal through a heteromeric complex of receptor serine kinases which include at least two type I and two type II receptors. This protein is a type I receptor which is essential for signaling. Mutations in this gene are associated with pituitary tumors. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	ACVR1B (Activin A Receptor, Type IB) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACVR1B include pituitary tumors and pancreatic cancer. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and L1CAM interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and SMAD binding. An important paralog of this gene is TGFBR2.	Transmembrane serine/threonine kinase activin type-1 receptor forming an activin receptor complex with activin receptor type-2 (ACVR2A or ACVR2B). Transduces the activin signal from the cell surface to the cytoplasm and is thus regulating a many physiological and pathological processes including neuronal differentiation and neuronal survival, hair follicle development and cycling, FSH production by the pituitary gland, wound healing, extracellular matrix production, immunosuppression and carcinogenesis. Activin is also thought to have a paracrine or autocrine role in follicular development in the ovary. Within the receptor complex, type-2 receptors (ACVR2A and/or ACVR2B) act as a primary activin receptors whereas the type-1 receptors like ACVR1B act as downstream transducers of activin signals. Activin binds to type-2 receptor at the plasma membrane and activates its serine-threonine kinase. The activated receptor type-2 then phosphorylates and activates the type-1 receptor such as ACVR1B. Once activated, the type-1 receptor binds and phosphorylates the SMAD proteins SMAD2 and SMAD3, on serine residues of the C-terminal tail. Soon after their association with the activin receptor and subsequent phosphorylation, SMAD2 and SMAD3 are released into the cytoplasm where they interact with the common partner SMAD4. This SMAD complex translocates into the nucleus where it mediates activin-induced transcription. Inhibitory SMAD7, which is recruited to ACVR1B through FKBP1A, can prevent the association of SMAD2 and SMAD3 with the activin receptor complex, thereby blocking the activin signal. Activin signal transduction is also antagonized by the binding to the receptor of inhibin-B via the IGSF1 inhibin coreceptor. ACVR1B also phosphorylates TDP2.	same
ADAM18	This gene encodes a member of the ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloprotease domain) family. Members of this family are membrane-anchored proteins structurally related to snake venom disintegrins, and have been implicated in a variety of biologic processes involving cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions, including fertilization, muscle development, and neurogenesis. The protein encoded by this gene is a sperm surface protein. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]	ADAM18 (ADAM Metallopeptidase Domain 18) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include metalloendopeptidase activity and metallopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAM22.	Sperm surface membrane protein that may be involved in spermatogenesis and fertilization. This is a non catalytic metalloprotease-like protein (By similarity).	same
ADAM11	This gene encodes a member of the ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloprotease) protein family. Members of this family are membrane-anchored proteins structurally related to snake venom disintegrins, and have been implicated in a variety of biological processes involving cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions, including fertilization, muscle development, and neurogenesis. This gene represents a candidate tumor suppressor gene for human breast cancer based on its location within a minimal region of chromosome 17q21 previously defined by tumor deletion mapping. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2014]	ADAM11 (ADAM Metallopeptidase Domain 11) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADAM11 include breast cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include metalloendopeptidase activity and metallopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAM22.	Probable ligand for integrin in the brain. This is a non catalytic metalloprotease-like protein	same
ACY1	This gene encodes a cytosolic, homodimeric, zinc-binding enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of acylated L-amino acids to L-amino acids and an acyl group, and has been postulated to function in the catabolism and salvage of acylated amino acids. This gene is located on chromosome 3p21.1, a region reduced to homozygosity in small-cell lung cancer (SCLC), and its expression has been reported to be reduced or undetectable in SCLC cell lines and tumors. The amino acid sequence of human aminoacylase-1 is highly homologous to the porcine counterpart, and this enzyme is the first member of a new family of zinc-binding enzymes. Mutations in this gene cause aminoacylase-1 deficiency, a metabolic disorder characterized by central nervous system defects and increased urinary excretion of N-acetylated amino acids. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. Read-through transcription also exists between this gene and the upstream ABHD14A (abhydrolase domain containing 14A) gene, as represented in GeneID:100526760. A related pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 18. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]	ACY1 (Aminoacylase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ACY1 include aminoacylase 1 deficiency and syringomyelia. Among its related pathways are Carbon metabolism and Arginine and proline metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include metallopeptidase activity and aminoacylase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ABHD14A-ACY1.	Involved in the hydrolysis of N-acylated or N-acetylated amino acids (except L-aspartate).	same
ACYP1	This gene is a member of the acylphosphatase family. The encoded protein is a small cytosolic enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of the carboxyl-phosphate bond of acylphosphates. Two isoenzymes have been isolated and described based on their tissue localization: erythrocyte (common) type acylphosphatase encoded by this gene, and muscle type acylphosphatase. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014]	ACYP1 (Acylphosphatase 1, Erythrocyte (Common) Type) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Pyruvate metabolism and Purine metabolism (KEGG). GO annotations related to this gene include acylphosphatase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACYP2.	Its physiological role is not yet clear	same
ACTR3B	This gene encodes a member of the actin-related proteins (ARP), which form multiprotein complexes and share 35-55% amino acid identity with conventional actin. The protein encoded by this gene may have a regulatory role in the actin cytoskeleton and induce cell-shape change and motility. Pseudogenes of this gene are located on chromosomes 2, 4, 10, 16, 22 and Y. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants and protein isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]	ACTR3B (ARP3 Actin-Related Protein 3 Homolog B (Yeast)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Immune response CCR3 signaling in eosinophils and G-protein signaling RAC1 in cellular process. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding. An important paralog of this gene is ACTR3C.	Plays a role in the organization of the actin cytoskeleton. May function as ATP-binding component of the Arp2/3 complex which is involved in regulation of actin polymerization and together with an activating nucleation-promoting factor (NPF) mediates the formation of branched actin networks. May decrease the metastatic potential of tumors.	same
ADAM2	This gene encodes a member of the ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloprotease domain) family. Members of this family are membrane-anchored proteins structurally related to snake venom disintegrins, and have been implicated in a variety of biological processes involving cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions, including fertilization, muscle development, and neurogenesis. The encoded protein is a subunit of an integral sperm membrane glycoprotein called fertilin, which plays an important role in sperm-egg interactions. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, May 2013]	ADAM2 (ADAM Metallopeptidase Domain 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Reproduction and Reproduction. GO annotations related to this gene include metalloendopeptidase activity and metallopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAM22.	Sperm surface membrane protein that may be involved in sperm-egg plasma membrane adhesion and fusion during fertilization. Could have a direct role in sperm-zona binding or migration of sperm from the uterus into the oviduct. Interactions with egg membrane could be mediated via binding between its disintegrin-like domain to one or more integrins receptors on the egg. This is a non catalytic metalloprotease-like protein	same
ADAM30	This gene encodes a member of the ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloprotease domain) family. Members of this family are membrane-anchored proteins structurally related to snake venom disintegrins, and have been implicated in a variety of biological processes involving cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions, including fertilization, muscle development, and neurogenesis. This gene is testis-specific and contains a polymorphic region, resulting in isoforms with varying numbers of C-terminal repeats. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADAM30 (ADAM Metallopeptidase Domain 30) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Reproduction and Reproduction. GO annotations related to this gene include metalloendopeptidase activity and metallopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAM33.	May be involved in spermatogenesis and fertilization	same
ADAD2	empty	ADAD2 (Adenosine Deaminase Domain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and adenosine deaminase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADARB2.	empty	same
ADAM23	This gene encodes a member of the ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloprotease domain) family. Members of this family are membrane-anchored proteins structurally related to snake venom disintegrins and have been implicated in a variety of biological processes involving cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions, including fertilization, muscle development, and neurogenesis. It is reported that inactivation of this gene is associated with tumorigenesis in human cancers. [provided by RefSeq, May 2013]	ADAM23 (ADAM Metallopeptidase Domain 23) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include metalloendopeptidase activity and metallopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAM22.	May play a role in cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions. This is a non-catalytic metalloprotease-like protein	same
ADAM28	This gene encodes a member of the ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloprotease domain) family. Members of this family are membrane-anchored proteins structurally related to snake venom disintegrins, and have been implicated in a variety of biological processes involving cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions, including fertilization, muscle development, and neurogenesis. The protein encoded by this gene is a lymphocyte-expressed ADAM protein. This gene is present in a gene cluster with other members of the ADAM family on chromosome 8. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2015]	ADAM28 (ADAM Metallopeptidase Domain 28) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include metalloendopeptidase activity and metallopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAM33.	May play a role in the adhesive and proteolytic events that occur during lymphocyte emigration or may function in ectodomain shedding of lymphocyte surface target proteins, such as FASL and CD40L. May be involved in sperm maturation	same
ADAM5P	empty	ADAM5 (ADAM Metallopeptidase Domain 5 (Pseudogene)) is a Pseudogene. GO annotations related to this gene include metalloendopeptidase activity.	This is a non catalytic metalloprotease-like protein.	diff
ADAM32	empty	ADAM32 (ADAM Metallopeptidase Domain 32) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include metalloendopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAM22.	May play a role in sperm development and fertilization This is a non-catalytic metalloprotease-like protein.	same
ADAM33	This gene encodes a member of the ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloprotease domain) family. Members of this family are membrane-anchored proteins structurally related to snake venom disintegrins, and have been implicated in a variety of biological processes involving cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions, including fertilization, muscle development, and neurogenesis. This protein is a type I transmembrane protein implicated in asthma and bronchial hyperresponsiveness. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2013]	ADAM33 (ADAM Metallopeptidase Domain 33) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADAM33 include asthma. GO annotations related to this gene include metalloendopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAM21.	empty	same
ADAM20	This gene encodes a member of the ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloprotease domain) family. Members of this family are membrane-anchored proteins structurally related to snake venom disintegrins, and have been implicated in a variety of biological processes involving cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions, including fertilization, muscle development, and neurogenesis. The expression of this gene is testis-specific. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADAM20 (ADAM Metallopeptidase Domain 20) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Reproduction and Reproduction. GO annotations related to this gene include metalloendopeptidase activity and metallopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAM33.	May be involved in sperm maturation and/or fertilization	same
ADAM3A	empty	ADAM3A (ADAM Metallopeptidase Domain 3A (Pseudogene)) is a Pseudogene. Diseases associated with ADAM3A include composite lymphoma.	empty	same
ADAM7	This gene encodes a member of the ADAMs family of zinc proteases. These transmembrane proteins play roles in multiple processes including cell signaling, adhesion and migration. The encoded protein lacks protease activity and may play roles in protein-protein interactions and cell adhesion processes including sperm-egg fusion. Mutations in this gene may be involved in the progression of melanoma. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]	ADAM7 (ADAM Metallopeptidase Domain 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADAM7 include melanoma. Among its related pathways are Notch Signaling Pathway (sino). GO annotations related to this gene include metalloendopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAM33.	May play an important role in male reproduction including sperm maturation and gonadotrope function. This is a non catalytic metalloprotease-like protein (By similarity).	same
ADAM9	This gene encodes a member of the ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloprotease domain) family. Members of this family are membrane-anchored proteins structurally related to snake venom disintegrins, and have been implicated in a variety of biological processes involving cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions, including fertilization, muscle development, and neurogenesis. The protein encoded by this gene interacts with SH3 domain-containing proteins, binds mitotic arrest deficient 2 beta protein, and is also involved in TPA-induced ectodomain shedding of membrane-anchored heparin-binding EGF-like growth factor. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]	ADAM9 (ADAM Metallopeptidase Domain 9) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADAM9 include cone-rod dystrophy 9 and myeloma. Among its related pathways are Degradation of the extracellular matrix and Cytoskeletal Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include SH3 domain binding and integrin binding. An important paralog of this gene is ADAM33.	Probable zinc protease. May mediate cell-cell or cell-matrix interactions. Isoform 2 displays alpha-secretase activity for APP.	same
ADAMTS10	This gene belongs to the ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase domain with thrombospondin type-1 motifs) family of zinc-dependent proteases. ADAMTS proteases are complex secreted enzymes containing a prometalloprotease domain of the reprolysin type attached to an ancillary domain with a highly conserved structure that includes at least one thrombospondin type 1 repeat. They have been demonstrated to have important roles in connective tissue organization, coagulation, inflammation, arthritis, angiogenesis and cell migration. The product of this gene plays a major role in growth and in skin, lens, and heart development. It is also a candidate gene for autosomal recessive Weill-Marchesani syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADAMTS10 (ADAM Metallopeptidase With Thrombospondin Type 1 Motif, 10) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADAMTS10 include weill-marchesani syndrome 1, recessive and weill-marchesani syndrome. Among its related pathways are Notch Signaling Pathway (sino). GO annotations related to this gene include metalloendopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAMTS16.	Metalloprotease that participate in microfibrils assembly. Microfibrils are extracellular matrix components occurring independently or along with elastin in the formation of elastic tissues.	same
ADAM8	This gene encodes a member of the ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloprotease domain) family. Members of this family are membrane-anchored proteins structurally related to snake venom disintegrins, and have been implicated in a variety of biological processes involving cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions, including fertilization, muscle development, and neurogenesis. The protein encoded by this gene may be involved in cell adhesion during neurodegeneration, and it is thought to be a target for allergic respiratory diseases, including asthma. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2009]	ADAM8 (ADAM Metallopeptidase Domain 8) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADAM8 include asthma. Among its related pathways are Degradation of the extracellular matrix and Notch Signaling Pathway (sino). GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and metallopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAM33.	Possible involvement in extravasation of leukocytes	same
ADAMTS14	This gene encodes a member of the ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motif) protein family. Members of the family share several distinct protein modules, including a propeptide region, a metalloproteinase domain, a disintegrin-like domain, and a thrombospondin type 1 (TS) motif. Individual members of this family differ in the number of C-terminal TS motifs, and some have unique C-terminal domains. This gene is highly similar to two family members, ADAMTS2 and ADAMTS3, in its sequence and gene structure, and the encoded protein shares the aminoprocollagen peptidase activity with the protein products encoded by ADAMTS2 and ADAMTS3. Various transcript variants of this gene have been identified. They result from the use of two different promoters and transcription initiation sites as well as alternative splicing sites. The full length nature of some transcripts has not been defined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADAMTS14 (ADAM Metallopeptidase With Thrombospondin Type 1 Motif, 14) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Degradation of the extracellular matrix and Collagen biosynthesis and modifying enzymes. GO annotations related to this gene include metalloendopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAMTS16.	Has a aminoprocollagen type I activity processing activity in the absence of ADAMTS2. Seems to be synthesized as a latent enzyme that requires activation to display aminoprocollagen peptidase activity	same
ADAMTS13	This gene encodes a member of a family of proteins containing several distinct regions, including a metalloproteinase domain, a disintegrin-like domain, and a thrombospondin type 1 (TS) motif. The enzyme encoded by this gene specifically cleaves von Willebrand Factor (vWF). Defects in this gene are associated with thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]	ADAMTS13 (ADAM Metallopeptidase With Thrombospondin Type 1 Motif, 13) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADAMTS13 include thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura and thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, familial. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and integrin binding. An important paralog of this gene is ADAMTSL1.	Cleaves the vWF multimers in plasma into smaller forms thereby controlling vWF-mediated platelet thrombus formation.	same
ADAL	empty	ADAL (Adenosine Deaminase-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADAL include epididymitis. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Purine metabolism (REACTOME). GO annotations related to this gene include adenosine deaminase activity.	Putative nucleoside deaminase. May catalyze the hydrolytic deamination of adenosine or some similar substrate and play a role in purine metabolism (By similarity).	same
ADAM29	This gene encodes a member of the ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloprotease domain) family. Members of this family are membrane-anchored proteins structurally related to snake venom disintegrins, and have been implicated in a variety of biological processes involving cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions, including fertilization, muscle development, and neurogenesis. The protein encoded by this gene is highly expressed in testis and may be involved in human spermatogenesis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADAM29 (ADAM Metallopeptidase Domain 29) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include metalloendopeptidase activity and metallopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAM33.	May be involved in spermatogenesis and fertilization. Seems to be a non catalytic metalloprotease-like protein	same
ADAMTS15	This gene encodes a member of the ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs) protein family. ADAMTS family members share several distinct protein modules, including a propeptide region, a metalloproteinase domain, a disintegrin-like domain, and a thrombospondin type 1 (TS) motif. Individual members of this family differ in the number of C-terminal TS motifs, and some have unique C-terminal domains. The protein encoded by this gene has a high sequence similarity to the proteins encoded by ADAMTS1 and ADAMTS8. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADAMTS15 (ADAM Metallopeptidase With Thrombospondin Type 1 Motif, 15) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Notch Signaling Pathway (sino). GO annotations related to this gene include metalloendopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAMTS16.	empty	same
ADAMTS16	This gene encodes a member of the ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs) protein family. ADAMTS family members share several distinct protein modules, including a propeptide region, a metalloproteinase domain, a disintegrin-like domain, and a thrombospondin type 1 (TS) motif. Individual members of this family differ in the number of C-terminal TS motifs, and some have unique C-terminal domains. The protein encoded by this gene has high sequence similarity to the protein encoded by ADAMTS18, another family member. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADAMTS16 (ADAM Metallopeptidase With Thrombospondin Type 1 Motif, 16) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Degradation of the extracellular matrix and Degradation of the extracellular matrix. GO annotations related to this gene include metalloendopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAMTS20.	empty	same
ADAMTS17	This gene encodes a member of the ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs) protein family. ADAMTS family members share several distinct protein modules, including a propeptide region, a metalloproteinase domain, a disintegrin-like domain, and a thrombospondin type 1 (TS) motif. Individual members of this family differ in the number of C-terminal TS motifs, and some have unique C-terminal domains. The protein encoded by this gene has a high sequence similarity to the protein encoded by ADAMTS19, another family member. The function of this protein has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADAMTS17 (ADAM Metallopeptidase With Thrombospondin Type 1 Motif, 17) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADAMTS17 include weill-marchesani-like syndrome and ichthyosis-short stature-brachydactyly-microspherophakia syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include metalloendopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAMTS16.	empty	same
ADAMTS20	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the ADAMTS family of zinc-dependent proteases. The encoded protein has a signal peptide that is cleaved to release the mature peptide, which is secreted and found in the extracellular matrix. This protein may be involved in tissue remodeling. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]	ADAMTS20 (ADAM Metallopeptidase With Thrombospondin Type 1 Motif, 20) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADAMTS20 include weill-marchesani syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include metalloendopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAMTS16.	May play a role in tissue-remodeling process occurring in both normal and pathological conditions. May have a protease-independent function in the transport from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi apparatus of secretory cargos, mediated by the GON domain	same
ADAM6	empty	ADAM6 (ADAM Metallopeptidase Domain 6 (Pseudogene)) is a Pseudogene.	empty	same
ADAMTS19	This gene encodes a member of the ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motif) protein family. Members of the family share several distinct protein modules, including a propeptide region, a metalloproteinase domain, a disintegrin-like domain, and a thrombospondin type 1 (TS) motif. Individual members of this family differ in the number of C-terminal TS motifs, and some have unique C-terminal domains. The protein encoded by this gene has high sequence similarity to the protein encoded by ADAMTS16, another family member. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADAMTS19 (ADAM Metallopeptidase With Thrombospondin Type 1 Motif, 19) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include metalloendopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAMTS16.	empty	same
ADAMTS5	This gene encodes a member of the ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs) protein family. Members of the family share several distinct protein modules, including a propeptide region, a metalloproteinase domain, a disintegrin-like domain, and a thrombospondin type 1 (TS) motif. Individual members of this family differ in the number of C-terminal TS motifs, and some have unique C-terminal domains. The enzyme encoded by this gene contains two C-terminal TS motifs and functions as aggrecanase to cleave aggrecan, a major proteoglycan of cartilage. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADAMTS5 (ADAM Metallopeptidase With Thrombospondin Type 1 Motif, 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Endochondral Ossification and Degradation of the extracellular matrix. GO annotations related to this gene include metalloendopeptidase activity and metallopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAMTS16.	Cleaves aggrecan, a cartilage proteoglycan, and may be involved in its turnover. May play an important role in the destruction of aggrecan in arthritic diseases. May play a role in proteolytic processing mostly during the peri-implantation period	same
ADAMDEC1	This encoded protein is thought to be a secreted protein belonging to the disintegrin metalloproteinase family. Its expression is upregulated during dendritic cells maturation. This protein may play an important role in dendritic cell function and their interactions with germinal center T cells. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADAMDEC1 (ADAM-Like, Decysin 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include metalloendopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAM22.	May play an important role in the control of the immune response and during pregnancy.	same
ADAMTS18	This gene encodes a member of the ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs) protein family. ADAMTS family members share several distinct protein modules, including a propeptide region, a metalloproteinase domain, a disintegrin-like domain, and a thrombospondin type 1 (TS) motif. Individual members of this family differ in the number of C-terminal TS motifs, and some have unique C-terminal domains. The protein encoded by this gene has a high sequence similarity to the protein encoded by gene ADAMTS16, another family member. It is thought to function as a tumor suppressor. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified, but their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADAMTS18 (ADAM Metallopeptidase With Thrombospondin Type 1 Motif, 18) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADAMTS18 include microcornea, myopic chorioretinal atrophy, and telecanthus and knobloch syndrome. Among its related pathways are Degradation of the extracellular matrix and Degradation of the extracellular matrix. GO annotations related to this gene include metalloendopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAMTS16.	empty	same
ADAMTS12	This gene encodes a member of the ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs) protein family. Members of the family share several distinct protein modules, including a propeptide region, a metalloproteinase domain, a disintegrin-like domain, and a thrombospondin type 1 (TS-1) motif. Individual members of this family differ in the number of C-terminal TS-1 motifs, and some have unique C-terminal domains. The enzyme encoded by this gene contains eight TS-1 motifs. It may play roles in pulmonary cells during fetal development or in tumor processes through its proteolytic activity or as a molecule potentially involved in regulation of cell adhesion. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADAMTS12 (ADAM Metallopeptidase With Thrombospondin Type 1 Motif, 12) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include metalloendopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAMTSL1.	Metalloprotease that may play a role in the degradation of COMP. Cleaves also alpha-2 macroglobulin and aggregan. Has anti-tumorigenic properties.	same
ADAMTSL2	This gene encodes a member of the ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs) and ADAMTS-like protein family. Members of the family share several distinct protein modules, including a propeptide region, a metalloproteinase domain, a disintegrin-like domain, and a thrombospondin type 1 (TS) motif. Individual members of this family differ in the number of C-terminal TS motifs, and some have unique C-terminal domains. The protein encoded by this gene lacks the protease domain, and is therefore of a member of the the ADAMTS-like protein subfamily. It is a secreted glycoprotein that binds the cell surface and extracellular matrix; it also interacts with latent transforming growth factor beta binding protein 1. Mutations in this gene have been associated with geleophysic dysplasia. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]	ADAMTSL2 (ADAMTS-Like 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADAMTSL2 include geleophysic dysplasia 1 and geleophysic dysplasia. GO annotations related to this gene include metalloendopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAMTSL1.	empty	same
ADAMTS4	This gene encodes a member of the ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs) protein family. Members of the family share several distinct protein modules, including a propeptide region, a metalloproteinase domain, a disintegrin-like domain, and a thrombospondin type 1 (TS) motif. Individual members of this family differ in the number of C-terminal TS motifs, and some have unique C-terminal domains. The enzyme encoded by this gene lacks a C-terminal TS motif. It is responsible for the degradation of aggrecan, a major proteoglycan of cartilage, and brevican, a brain-specific extracellular matrix protein. The cleavage of aggrecan and brevican suggests key roles of this enzyme in arthritic disease and in the central nervous system, potentially, in the progression of glioma. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADAMTS4 (ADAM Metallopeptidase With Thrombospondin Type 1 Motif, 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Endochondral Ossification and Degradation of the extracellular matrix. GO annotations related to this gene include metalloendopeptidase activity and peptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAMTS16.	Cleaves aggrecan, a cartilage proteoglycan, and may be involved in its turnover. May play an important role in the destruction of aggrecan in arthritic diseases. Could also be a critical factor in the exacerbation of neurodegeneration in Alzheimer disease. Cleaves aggrecan at the 392-Glu- -Ala-393 site	same
ADAMTS8	This gene encodes a member of the ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs) protein family. Members of the family share several distinct protein modules, including a propeptide region, a metalloproteinase domain, a disintegrin-like domain, and a thrombospondin type 1 (TS) motif. Individual members of this family differ in the number of C-terminal TS motifs, and some have unique C-terminal domains. The enzyme encoded by this gene contains two C-terminal TS motifs, and disrupts angiogenesis in vivo. A number of disorders have been mapped in the vicinity of this gene, most notably lung neoplasms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADAMTS8 (ADAM Metallopeptidase With Thrombospondin Type 1 Motif, 8) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Degradation of the extracellular matrix and Degradation of the extracellular matrix. GO annotations related to this gene include heparin binding and integrin binding. An important paralog of this gene is ADAMTS16.	Has anti-angiogenic properties	same
ADAMTSL5	empty	ADAMTSL5 (ADAMTS-Like 5) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include heparin binding and metalloendopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAMTSL1.	May play a role in modulation of fibrillin microfibrils in the extracellular matrix (ECM)	same
ADAMTSL3	empty	ADAMTSL3 (ADAMTS-Like 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADAMTSL3 include colorectal cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include metallopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAMTSL1.	empty	same
ADAMTS1	This gene encodes a member of the ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motif) protein family. Members of the family share several distinct protein modules, including a propeptide region, a metalloproteinase domain, a disintegrin-like domain, and a thrombospondin type 1 (TS) motif. Individual members of this family differ in the number of C-terminal TS motifs, and some have unique C-terminal domains. The protein encoded by this gene contains two disintegrin loops and three C-terminal TS motifs and has anti-angiogenic activity. The expression of this gene may be associated with various inflammatory processes as well as development of cancer cachexia. This gene is likely to be necessary for normal growth, fertility, and organ morphology and function. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADAMTS1 (ADAM Metallopeptidase With Thrombospondin Type 1 Motif, 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADAMTS1 include type 2a von willebrand disease. Among its related pathways are Endochondral Ossification and Angiogenesis (CST). GO annotations related to this gene include heparin binding and metallopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAMTS16.	Cleaves aggrecan, a cartilage proteoglycan, and may be involved in its turnover (By similarity). Has angiogenic inhibitor activity. Active metalloprotease, which may be associated with various inflammatory processes as well as development of cancer cachexia. May play a critical role in follicular rupture.	same
ADAP1	empty	ADAP1 (ArfGAP With Dual PH Domains 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I PI3K signaling events and Arf6 signaling events. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and inositol 1,3,4,5 tetrakisphosphate binding. An important paralog of this gene is SMAP1.	GTPase-activating protein for the ADP ribosylation factor family (Probable). Binds phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate (PtdInsP3) and inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate (InsP4).	same
ADAMTS2	This gene encodes a member of the ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs) protein family. Members of the family share several distinct protein modules, including a propeptide region, a metalloproteinase domain, a disintegrin-like domain, and a thrombospondin type 1 (TS) motif. Individual members of this family differ in the number of C-terminal TS motifs, and some have unique C-terminal domains. The enzyme encoded by this gene excises the N-propeptide of type I, type II and type V procollagens. Mutations in this gene cause Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type VIIC, a recessively inherited connective-tissue disorder. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]	ADAMTS2 (ADAM Metallopeptidase With Thrombospondin Type 1 Motif, 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADAMTS2 include ehlers-danlos syndrome, type viic and anosognosia. Among its related pathways are Degradation of the extracellular matrix and Collagen biosynthesis and modifying enzymes. GO annotations related to this gene include metalloendopeptidase activity and metallopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAMTS16.	Cleaves the propeptides of type I and II collagen prior to fibril assembly. Does not act on type III collagen. May also play a role in development that is independent of its role in collagen biosynthesis	same
ADAT1	This gene is a member of the ADAR (adenosine deaminase acting on RNA) family. Using site-specific adenosine modification, proteins encoded by these genes participate in the pre-mRNA editing of nuclear transcripts. The protein encoded by this gene, tRNA-specific adenosine deaminase 1, is responsible for the deamination of adenosine 37 to inosine in eukaryotic tRNA. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]	ADAT1 (Adenosine Deaminase, TRNA-Specific 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and tRNA-specific adenosine deaminase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADARB2.	Specifically deaminates adenosine-37 to inosine in tRNA-Ala	same
ADAT2	empty	ADAT2 (Adenosine Deaminase, TRNA-Specific 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrolase activity.	Probably participates in deamination of adenosine-34 to inosine in many tRNAs.	same
ADA	This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of adenosine to inosine. Various mutations have been described for this gene and have been linked to human diseases. Deficiency in this enzyme causes a form of severe combined immunodeficiency disease (SCID), in which there is dysfunction of both B and T lymphocytes with impaired cellular immunity and decreased production of immunoglobulins, whereas elevated levels of this enzyme have been associated with congenital hemolytic anemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADA (Adenosine Deaminase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADA include severe combined immunodeficiency due to ada deficiency and adenosine deaminase deficiency. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include adenosine deaminase activity and purine nucleoside binding.	Catalyzes the hydrolytic deamination of adenosine and 2-deoxyadenosine. Plays an important role in purine metabolism and in adenosine homeostasis. Modulates signaling by extracellular adenosine, and so contributes indirectly to cellular signaling events. Acts as a positive regulator of T-cell coactivation, by binding DPP4. Its interaction with DPP4 regulates lymphocyte-epithelial cell adhesion.	same
ADAMTS3	This gene encodes a member of the ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs) protein family. Members of the family share several distinct protein modules, including a propeptide region, a metalloproteinase domain, a disintegrin-like domain, and a thrombospondin type 1 (TS) motif. Individual members of this family differ in the number of C-terminal TS motifs, and some have unique C-terminal domains. The protein encoded by this gene is the major procollagen II N-propeptidase. A deficiency of this protein may be responsible for dermatosparaxis, a genetic defect of connective tissues. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADAMTS3 (ADAM Metallopeptidase With Thrombospondin Type 1 Motif, 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Degradation of the extracellular matrix and Collagen biosynthesis and modifying enzymes. GO annotations related to this gene include heparin binding and metalloendopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAMTS16.	Cleaves the propeptides of type II collagen prior to fibril assembly. Does not act on types I and III collagens	same
ADCK4	This gene encodes a protein with two copies of a domain found in protein kinases. The encoded protein has a complete protein kinase catalytic domain, and a truncated domain that contains only the active and binding sites of the protein kinase domain, however, it is not known whether the protein has any kinase activity. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]	ADCK4 (AarF Domain Containing Kinase 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADCK4 include nephrotic syndrome, type 9 and nephrotic syndrome, idiopathic, steroid-resistant. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADCK3.	May play a role in CoQ10 (COQ10A and/or COQ10B) biosynthesis, which is required for podocyte migration.	same
ADAMTS6	This gene encodes a member of the ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs) protein family. Members of the family share several distinct protein modules, including a propeptide region, a metalloproteinase domain, a disintegrin-like domain, and a thrombospondin type 1 (TS) motif. Individual members of this family differ in the number of C-terminal TS motifs, and some have unique C-terminal domains. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADAMTS6 (ADAM Metallopeptidase With Thrombospondin Type 1 Motif, 6) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include metalloendopeptidase activity and metallopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAMTS16.	empty	same
ADAMTSL4	This gene is a member of ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs)-like gene family and encodes a protein with seven thrombospondin type 1 repeats. The thrombospondin type 1 repeat domain is found in many proteins with diverse biological functions including cellular adhesion, angiogenesis, and patterning of the developing nervous system. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	ADAMTSL4 (ADAMTS-Like 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADAMTSL4 include ectopia lentis et pupillae and ectopia lentis, isolated, autosomal recessive. GO annotations related to this gene include metalloendopeptidase activity and protease binding. An important paralog of this gene is ADAMTSL1.	Positive regulation of apoptosis. May facilitate FBN1 microfibril biogenesis.	same
ADAMTS7	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs) family. Members of this family share several distinct protein modules, including a propeptide region, a metalloproteinase domain, a disintegrin-like domain, and a thrombospondin type 1 (TS) motif. Individual members of this family differ in the number of C-terminal TS motifs, and some have unique C-terminal domains. The protein encoded by this gene contains two C-terminal TS motifs. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADAMTS7 (ADAM Metallopeptidase With Thrombospondin Type 1 Motif, 7) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include metalloendopeptidase activity and metallopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAMTSL1.	Metalloprotease that may play a role in the degradation of COMP.	same
ADCK5	empty	ADCK5 (AarF Domain Containing Kinase 5) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADCK1.	The function of this protein is not yet clear. It is not known if it has protein kinase activity and what type of substrate it would phosphorylate (Ser, Thr or Tyr)	same
ADCK2	empty	ADCK2 (AarF Domain Containing Kinase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADCK2 include klippel-feil syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity.	The function of this protein is not yet clear. It is not known if it has protein kinase activity and what type of substrate it would phosphorylate (Ser, Thr or Tyr)	same
ADAT3	empty	ADAT3 (Adenosine Deaminase, TRNA-Specific 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADAT3 include mental retardation, autosomal recessive 36 and intellectual disability-strabismus syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrolase activity.	empty	same
ADAR	This gene encodes the enzyme responsible for RNA editing by site-specific deamination of adenosines. This enzyme destabilizes double-stranded RNA through conversion of adenosine to inosine. Mutations in this gene have been associated with dyschromatosis symmetrica hereditaria. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]	ADAR (Adenosine Deaminase, RNA-Specific) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADAR include dyschromatosis symmetrica hereditaria and aicardi-goutieres syndrome 6. Among its related pathways are Translational Control and Interferon Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and double-stranded RNA adenosine deaminase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADARB2.	Catalyzes the hydrolytic deamination of adenosine to inosine in double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) referred to as A-to-I RNA editing. This may affect gene expression and function in a number of ways that include mRNA translation by changing codons and hence the amino acid sequence of proteins; pre-mRNA splicing by altering splice site recognition sequences; RNA stability by changing sequences involved in nuclease recognition; genetic stability in the case of RNA virus genomes by changing sequences during viral RNA replication; and RNA structure-dependent activities such as microRNA production or targeting or protein-RNA interactions. Can edit both viral and cellular RNAs and can edit RNAs at multiple sites (hyper-editing) or at specific sites (site-specific editing). Its cellular RNA substrates include: bladder cancer-associated protein (BLCAP), neurotransmitter receptors for glutamate (GRIA2) and serotonin (HTR2C) and GABA receptor (GABRA3). Site-specific RNA editing of transcripts encoding these proteins results in amino acid substitutions which consequently alters their functional activities. Exhibits low-level editing at the GRIA2 Q/R site, but edits efficiently at the R/G site and HOTSPOT1. Its viral RNA substrates include: hepatitis C virus (HCV), vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV), measles virus (MV), hepatitis delta virus (HDV), and human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1). Exhibits either a proviral (HDV, MV, VSV and HIV-1) or an antiviral effect (HCV) and this can be editing-dependent (HDV and HCV), editing-independent (VSV and MV) or both (HIV-1). Impairs HCV replication via RNA editing at multiple sites. Enhances the replication of MV, VSV and HIV-1 through an editing-independent mechanism via suppression of EIF2AK2/PKR activation and function. Stimulates both the release and infectivity of HIV-1 viral particles by an editing-dependent mechanism where it associates with viral RNAs and edits adenosines in the 5UTR and the Rev and Tat coding sequence. Can enhance viral replication of HDV via A-to-I editing at a site designated as amber/W, thereby changing an UAG amber stop codon to an UIG tryptophan (W) codon that permits synthesis of the large delta antigen (L-HDAg) which has a key role in the assembly of viral particles. However, high levels of ADAR1 inhibit HDV replication.	same
ADAP2	empty	ADAP2 (ArfGAP With Dual PH Domains 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADAP2 include gastrointestinal lymphoma. GO annotations related to this gene include GTPase activator activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAP1.	GTPase-activating protein for the ADP ribosylation factor family (Potential). Binds phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate (PtdInsP3) and inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate (InsP4). Possesses a stoichiometry of two binding sites for InsP4 with identical affinity.	same
ADAMTSL1	This gene encodes a secreted protein and member of the ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motif) family. This protein lacks the metalloproteinase and disintegrin-like domains, which are typical of the ADAMTS family, but contains other ADAMTS domains, including the thrombospondin type 1 motif. This protein may have important functions in the extracellular matrix. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADAMTSL1 (ADAMTS-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADAMTSL1 include quebec platelet disorder and colonic disease. Among its related pathways are Notch Signaling Pathway (sino). GO annotations related to this gene include metallopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAMTSL5.	empty	same
ADAMTS9	This gene encodes a member of the ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs) protein family. Members of the family share several distinct protein modules, including a propeptide region, a metalloproteinase domain, a disintegrin-like domain, and a thrombospondin type 1 (TS) motif. Individual members of this family differ in the number of C-terminal TS motifs, and some have unique C-terminal domains. Members of the ADAMTS family have been implicated in the cleavage of proteoglycans, the control of organ shape during development, and the inhibition of angiogenesis. This gene is localized to chromosome 3p14.3-p14.2, an area known to be lost in hereditary renal tumors. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADAMTS9 (ADAM Metallopeptidase With Thrombospondin Type 1 Motif, 9) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Degradation of the extracellular matrix and Degradation of the extracellular matrix. GO annotations related to this gene include metalloendopeptidase activity and metallopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAMTS16.	Cleaves the large aggregating proteoglycans, aggrecan and versican. Has a protease-independent function in promoting the transport from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi apparatus of a variety of secretory cargos.	same
ADARB2	This gene encodes a member of the double-stranded RNA adenosine deaminase family of RNA-editing enzymes and may play a regulatory role in RNA editing. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADARB2 (Adenosine Deaminase, RNA-Specific, B2 (Non-Functional)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Purine metabolism (KEGG). GO annotations related to this gene include double-stranded RNA binding and adenosine deaminase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADAR.	Lacks editing activity. It prevents the binding of other ADAR enzymes to targets in vitro, and decreases the efficiency of these enzymes. Capable of binding to dsRNA but also to ssRNA	same
ADCK1	empty	ADCK1 (AarF Domain Containing Kinase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADCK5.	The function of this protein is not yet clear. It is not known if it has protein kinase activity and what type of substrate it would phosphorylate (Ser, Thr or Tyr)	same
ADARB1	This gene encodes the enzyme responsible for pre-mRNA editing of the glutamate receptor subunit B by site-specific deamination of adenosines. Studies in rat found that this enzyme acted on its own pre-mRNA molecules to convert an AA dinucleotide to an AI dinucleotide which resulted in a new splice site. Alternative splicing of this gene results in several transcript variants, some of which have been characterized by the presence or absence of an ALU cassette insert and a short or long C-terminal region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADARB1 (Adenosine Deaminase, RNA-Specific, B1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and Purine metabolism (KEGG). GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and double-stranded RNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is ADARB2.	Catalyzes the hydrolytic deamination of adenosine to inosine in double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) referred to as A-to-I RNA editing. This may affect gene expression and function in a number of ways that include mRNA translation by changing codons and hence the amino acid sequence of proteins; pre-mRNA splicing by altering splice site recognition sequences; RNA stability by changing sequences involved in nuclease recognition; genetic stability in the case of RNA virus genomes by changing sequences during viral RNA replication; and RNA structure-dependent activities such as microRNA production or targeting or protein-RNA interactions. Can edit both viral and cellular RNAs and can edit RNAs at multiple sites (hyper-editing) or at specific sites (site-specific editing). Its cellular RNA substrates include: bladder cancer-associated protein (BLCAP), neurotransmitter receptors for glutamate (GRIA2 and GRIK2) and serotonin (HTR2C), GABA receptor (GABRA3) and potassium voltage-gated channel (KCNA1). Site-specific RNA editing of transcripts encoding these proteins results in amino acid substitutions which consequently alter their functional activities. Edits GRIA2 at both the Q/R and R/G sites efficiently but converts the adenosine in hotspot1 much less efficiently. Can exert a proviral effect towards human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) and enhances its replication via both an editing-dependent and editing-independent mechanism. The former involves editing of adenosines in the 5UTR while the latter occurs via suppression of EIF2AK2/PKR activation and function. Can inhibit cell proliferation and migration and can stimulate exocytosis.	same
ADCY4	This gene encodes a member of the family of adenylate cyclases, which are membrane-associated enzymes that catalyze the formation of the secondary messenger cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). Mouse studies show that adenylate cyclase 4, along with adenylate cyclases 2 and 3, is expressed in olfactory cilia, suggesting that several different adenylate cyclases may couple to olfactory receptors and that there may be multiple receptor-mediated mechanisms for the generation of cAMP signals. Alternative splicing results in transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]	ADCY4 (Adenylate Cyclase 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADCY4 include adenoma. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include adenylate cyclase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADCY5.	This is a membrane-bound, calmodulin-insensitive adenylyl cyclase.	same
ADCY10	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a distinct class of adenylyl cyclases that is soluble and insensitive to G protein or forskolin regulation. Activity of this protein is regulated by bicarbonate. Variation at this gene has been observed in patients with absorptive hypercalciuria. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been observed. There is a pseudogene of this gene on chromosome 6. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]	ADCY10 (Adenylate Cyclase 10 (Soluble)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADCY10 include hypercalciuria, absorptive and albright's hereditary osteodystrophy. Among its related pathways are Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include magnesium ion binding and ATPase binding.	Soluble adenylyl cyclase that has a critical role in mammalian spermatogenesis. Produces the cAMP which mediates in part the cAMP-responsive nuclear factors indispensable for maturation of sperm in the epididymis. Induces capacitation, the maturational process that sperm undergo prior to fertilization. May be the bicarbonate sensor. Involved in ciliary beat regulation.	same
ADC	empty	empty	empty	same
ADCYAP1	This gene encodes a secreted proprotein that is further processed into multiple mature peptides. These peptides stimulate adenylate cyclase and increase cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) levels, resulting in the transcriptional activation of target genes. The products of this gene are key mediators of neuroendocrine stress responses. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2013]	ADCYAP1 (Adenylate Cyclase Activating Polypeptide 1 (Pituitary)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADCYAP1 include post-traumatic stress disorder and chronic fatigue syndrome. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and neuropeptide hormone activity. An important paralog of this gene is VIP.	Binding to its receptor activates G proteins and stimulates adenylate cyclase in pituitary cells. Promotes neuron projection development through the RAPGEF2/Rap1/B-Raf/ERK pathway.	same
ADCY7	This gene encodes a membrane-bound adenylate cyclase that catalyses the formation of cyclic AMP from ATP and is inhibitable by calcium. The product of this gene is a member of the adenylyl cyclase class-4/guanylyl cyclase enzyme family that is characterized by the presence of twelve membrane-spanning domains in its sequences. Several transcript variants have been observed for this gene, but the full-length natures of only two have been determined so far. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2013]	ADCY7 (Adenylate Cyclase 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADCY7 include adenoma. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include adenylate cyclase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADCY5.	This is a membrane-bound, calcium-inhibitable adenylyl cyclase	same
ADCY5	This gene encodes a member of the membrane-bound adenylyl cyclase enzymes. Adenylyl cyclases mediate G protein-coupled receptor signaling through the synthesis of the second messenger cAMP. Activity of the encoded protein is stimulated by the Gs alpha subunit of G protein-coupled receptors and is inhibited by protein kinase A, calcium and Gi alpha subunits. Single nucleotide polymorphisms in this gene may be associated with low birth weight and type 2 diabetes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]	ADCY5 (Adenylate Cyclase 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADCY5 include dyskinesia, familial, with facial myokymia and thyroid adenoma. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include protein heterodimerization activity and adenylate cyclase binding. An important paralog of this gene is NPR2.	This is a membrane-bound, calcium-inhibitable adenylyl cyclase	same
ADCY2	This gene encodes a member of the family of adenylate cyclases, which are membrane-associated enzymes that catalyze the formation of the secondary messenger cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). This enzyme is insensitive to Ca(2+)/calmodulin, and is stimulated by the G protein beta and gamma subunit complex. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADCY2 (Adenylate Cyclase 2 (Brain)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADCY2 include adenoma. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include protein heterodimerization activity and adenylate cyclase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADCY5.	This is a membrane-bound, calmodulin-insensitive adenylyl cyclase	same
ADCY6	This gene encodes adenylate cyclase 6, which is a membrane-associated enzyme and catalyzes the formation of the secondary messenger cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). The expression of this gene is found in normal thyroid and brain tissues, as well as some tumors; and its expression is significantly higher in one hyperfunctioning thyroid tumor than in normal thyroid tissue. Alternative splicing generates 2 transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADCY6 (Adenylate Cyclase 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADCY6 include hypomyelination neuropathy - arthrogryposis and thyroid adenoma. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and adenylate cyclase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADCY5.	Membrane-bound, calcium-inhibitable adenylyl cyclase.	same
ADCY3	This gene encodes adenylyl cyclase 3 which is a membrane-associated enzyme and catalyzes the formation of the secondary messenger cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). This protein appears to be widely expressed in various human tissues and may be involved in a number of physiological and pathophysiological metabolic processes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADCY3 (Adenylate Cyclase 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADCY3 include thyroid adenoma and precocious puberty. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include calmodulin binding and adenylate cyclase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADCY5.	Mediates odorant detection (possibly) via modulation of intracellular cAMP concentration	same
ADD3	Adducins are heteromeric proteins composed of different subunits referred to as adducin alpha, beta and gamma. The three subunits are encoded by distinct genes and belong to a family of membrane skeletal proteins involved in the assembly of spectrin-actin network in erythrocytes and at sites of cell-cell contact in epithelial tissues. While adducins alpha and gamma are ubiquitously expressed, the expression of adducin beta is restricted to brain and hematopoietic tissues. Adducin, originally purified from human erythrocytes, was found to be a heterodimer of adducins alpha and beta. Polymorphisms resulting in amino acid substitutions in these two subunits have been associated with the regulation of blood pressure in an animal model of hypertension. Heterodimers consisting of alpha and gamma subunits have also been described. Structurally, each subunit is comprised of two distinct domains. The amino-terminal region is protease resistant and globular in shape, while the carboxy-terminal region is protease sensitive. The latter contains multiple phosphorylation sites for protein kinase C, the binding site for calmodulin, and is required for association with spectrin and actin. Alternatively spliced adducin gamma transcripts encoding different isoforms have been described. The functions of the different isoforms are not known. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADD3 (Adducin 3 (Gamma)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADD3 include inherited congenital spastic tetraplegia and dyscalculia. Among its related pathways are Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding and structural constituent of cytoskeleton. An important paralog of this gene is ADD2.	Membrane-cytoskeleton-associated protein that promotes the assembly of the spectrin-actin network. Binds to calmodulin	same
ADD2	Adducins are heteromeric proteins composed of different subunits referred to as adducin alpha, beta and gamma. The three subunits are encoded by distinct genes and belong to a family of membrane skeletal proteins involved in the assembly of spectrin-actin network in erythrocytes and at sites of cell-cell contact in epithelial tissues. While adducins alpha and gamma are ubiquitously expressed, the expression of adducin beta is restricted to brain and hematopoietic tissues. Adducin, originally purified from human erythrocytes, was found to be a heterodimer of adducins alpha and beta. Polymorphisms resulting in amino acid substitutions in these two subunits have been associated with the regulation of blood pressure in an animal model of hypertension. Heterodimers consisting of alpha and gamma subunits have also been described. Structurally, each subunit is comprised of two distinct domains. The amino-terminal region is protease resistant and globular in shape, while the carboxy-terminal region is protease sensitive. The latter contains multiple phosphorylation sites for protein kinase C, the binding site for calmodulin, and is required for association with spectrin and actin. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	ADD2 (Adducin 2 (Beta)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADD2 include capillariasis and exhibitionism. Among its related pathways are Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and actin binding. An important paralog of this gene is ADD3.	Membrane-cytoskeleton-associated protein that promotes the assembly of the spectrin-actin network. Binds to the erythrocyte membrane receptor SLC2A1/GLUT1 and may therefore provide a link between the spectrin cytoskeleton to the plasma membrane. Binds to calmodulin. Calmodulin binds preferentially to the beta subunit.	same
ADH1C	This gene encodes class I alcohol dehydrogenase, gamma subunit, which is a member of the alcohol dehydrogenase family. Members of this enzyme family metabolize a wide variety of substrates, including ethanol, retinol, other aliphatic alcohols, hydroxysteroids, and lipid peroxidation products. Class I alcohol dehydrogenase, consisting of several homo- and heterodimers of alpha, beta, and gamma subunits, exhibits high activity for ethanol oxidation and plays a major role in ethanol catabolism. Three genes encoding alpha, beta and gamma subunits are tandemly organized in a genomic segment as a gene cluster. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADH1C (Alcohol Dehydrogenase 1C (Class I), Gamma Polypeptide) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADH1C include alcohol dependence and liver cirrhosis. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include alcohol dehydrogenase (NAD) activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADH6.	empty	same
ADCY8	Adenylate cyclase is a membrane bound enzyme that catalyses the formation of cyclic AMP from ATP. The enzymatic activity is under the control of several hormones, and different polypeptides participate in the transduction of the signal from the receptor to the catalytic moiety. Stimulatory or inhibitory receptors (Rs and Ri) interact with G proteins (Gs and Gi) that exhibit GTPase activity and they modulate the activity of the catalytic subunit of the adenylyl cyclase [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADCY8 (Adenylate Cyclase 8 (Brain)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADCY8 include thyroid adenoma and precocious puberty. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include adenylate cyclase activity and calcium- and calmodulin-responsive adenylate cyclase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADCY5.	This is a membrane-bound, calcium-stimulable adenylyl cyclase. May be involved in learning, in memory and in drug dependence (By similarity).	same
ADCYAP1R1	This gene encodes type I adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide receptor, which is a membrane-associated protein and shares significant homology with members of the glucagon/secretin receptor family. This receptor mediates diverse biological actions of adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide 1 and is positively coupled to adenylate cyclase. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]	ADCYAP1R1 (Adenylate Cyclase Activating Polypeptide 1 (Pituitary) Receptor Type I) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADCYAP1R1 include post-traumatic stress disorder. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor activity and ADP-ribosylation factor binding. An important paralog of this gene is VIPR2.	This is a receptor for PACAP-27 and PACAP-38. The activity of this receptor is mediated by G proteins which activate adenylyl cyclase. May regulate the release of adrenocorticotropin, luteinizing hormone, growth hormone, prolactin, epinephrine, and catecholamine. May play a role in spermatogenesis and sperm motility. Causes smooth muscle relaxation and secretion in the gastrointestinal tract	same
ADD1	Adducins are a family of cytoskeleton proteins encoded by three genes (alpha, beta, gamma). Adducin is a heterodimeric protein that consists of related subunits, which are produced from distinct genes but share a similar structure. Alpha- and beta-adducin include a protease-resistant N-terminal region and a protease-sensitive, hydrophilic C-terminal region. Alpha- and gamma-adducins are ubiquitously expressed. In contrast, beta-adducin is expressed at high levels in brain and hematopoietic tissues. Adducin binds with high affinity to Ca(2+)/calmodulin and is a substrate for protein kinases A and C. Alternative splicing results in multiple variants encoding distinct isoforms; however, not all variants have been fully described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADD1 (Adducin 1 (Alpha)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADD1 include hypertension, essential and gastroschisis. Among its related pathways are Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and actin binding. An important paralog of this gene is ADD2.	Membrane-cytoskeleton-associated protein that promotes the assembly of the spectrin-actin network. Binds to calmodulin	same
ADH1A	This gene encodes a member of the alcohol dehydrogenase family. The encoded protein is the alpha subunit of class I alcohol dehydrogenase, which consists of several homo- and heterodimers of alpha, beta and gamma subunits. Alcohol dehydrogenases catalyze the oxidation of alcohols to aldehydes. This gene is active in the liver in early fetal life but only weakly active in adult liver. This gene is found in a cluster with six additional alcohol dehydrogenase genes, including those encoding the beta and gamma subunits, on the long arm of chromosome 4. Mutations in this gene may contribute to variation in certain personality traits and substance dependence. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]	ADH1A (Alcohol Dehydrogenase 1A (Class I), Alpha Polypeptide) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADH1A include fetal alcohol syndrome and alcohol dependence. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include alcohol dehydrogenase (NAD) activity and alcohol dehydrogenase activity, zinc-dependent. An important paralog of this gene is ADH6.	empty	same
ADH1B	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the alcohol dehydrogenase family. Members of this enzyme family metabolize a wide variety of substrates, including ethanol, retinol, other aliphatic alcohols, hydroxysteroids, and lipid peroxidation products. This encoded protein, consisting of several homo- and heterodimers of alpha, beta, and gamma subunits, exhibits high activity for ethanol oxidation and plays a major role in ethanol catabolism. Three genes encoding alpha, beta and gamma subunits are tandemly organized in a genomic segment as a gene cluster. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2013]	ADH1B (Alcohol Dehydrogenase 1B (Class I), Beta Polypeptide) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADH1B include alcohol dependence and alcohol-related birth defect. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include alcohol dehydrogenase activity, zinc-dependent. An important paralog of this gene is ADH6.	empty	same
ADCY9	Adenylate cyclase is a membrane bound enzyme that catalyses the formation of cyclic AMP from ATP. It is regulated by a family of G protein-coupled receptors, protein kinases, and calcium. The type 9 adenylyl cyclase is a widely distributed adenylyl cyclase, and it is stimulated by beta-adrenergic receptor activation but is insensitive to forskolin, calcium, and somatostatin. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADCY9 (Adenylate Cyclase 9) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADCY9 include rubinstein-taybi syndrome and thyroid adenoma. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include adenylate cyclase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADCY5.	May play a fundamental role in situations where fine interplay between intracellular calcium and cAMP determines the cellular function. May be a physiologically relevant docking site for calcineurin (By similarity).	same
ADH7	This gene encodes class IV alcohol dehydrogenase 7 mu or sigma subunit, which is a member of the alcohol dehydrogenase family. Members of this family metabolize a wide variety of substrates, including ethanol, retinol, other aliphatic alcohols, hydroxysteroids, and lipid peroxidation products. The enzyme encoded by this gene is inefficient in ethanol oxidation, but is the most active as a retinol dehydrogenase; thus it may participate in the synthesis of retinoic acid, a hormone important for cellular differentiation. The expression of this gene is much more abundant in stomach than liver, thus differing from the other known gene family members. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]	ADH7 (Alcohol Dehydrogenase 7 (Class IV), Mu Or Sigma Polypeptide) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADH7 include atrophic gastritis and gastritis. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include retinol dehydrogenase activity and alcohol dehydrogenase (NAD) activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADH6.	Could function in retinol oxidation for the synthesis of retinoic acid, a hormone important for cellular differentiation. Medium-chain (octanol) and aromatic (m-nitrobenzaldehyde) compounds are the best substrates. Ethanol is not a good substrate but at the high ethanol concentrations reached in the digestive tract, it plays a role in the ethanol oxidation and contributes to the first pass ethanol metabolism	same
ADHFE1	The ADHFE1 gene encodes hydroxyacid-oxoacid transhydrogenase (EC 1.1.99.24), which is responsible for the oxidation of 4-hydroxybutyrate in mammalian tissues (Kardon et al., 2006 [PubMed 16616524]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	ADHFE1 (Alcohol Dehydrogenase, Iron Containing, 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Respiratory electron transport, ATP synthesis by chemiosmotic coupling, and heat production by uncoupling proteins.. GO annotations related to this gene include hydroxyacid-oxoacid transhydrogenase activity.	Catalyzes the cofactor-independent reversible oxidation of gamma-hydroxybutyrate (GHB) to succinic semialdehyde (SSA) coupled to reduction of 2-ketoglutarate (2-KG) to D-2-hydroxyglutarate (D-2-HG). D,L-3-hydroxyisobutyrate and L-3-hydroxybutyrate (L-3-OHB) are also substrates for HOT with 10-fold lower activities.	same
ADH5	This gene encodes a member of the alcohol dehydrogenase family. Members of this family metabolize a wide variety of substrates, including ethanol, retinol, other aliphatic alcohols, hydroxysteroids, and lipid peroxidation products. The encoded protein forms a homodimer. It has virtually no activity for ethanol oxidation, but exhibits high activity for oxidation of long-chain primary alcohols and for oxidation of S-hydroxymethyl-glutathione, a spontaneous adduct between formaldehyde and glutathione. This enzyme is an important component of cellular metabolism for the elimination of formaldehyde, a potent irritant and sensitizing agent that causes lacrymation, rhinitis, pharyngitis, and contact dermatitis. The human genome contains several non-transcribed pseudogenes related to this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]	ADH5 (Alcohol Dehydrogenase 5 (Class III), Chi Polypeptide) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADH5 include pharyngitis and contact dermatitis. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Chemical carcinogenesis. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and fatty acid binding. An important paralog of this gene is ADH6.	Class-III ADH is remarkably ineffective in oxidizing ethanol, but it readily catalyzes the oxidation of long-chain primary alcohols and the oxidation of S-(hydroxymethyl) glutathione	same
ADI1	This gene encodes an enzyme that belongs to the aci-reductone dioxygenase family of metal-binding enzymes, which are involved in methionine salvage. This enzyme may regulate mRNA processing in the nucleus, and may carry out different functions depending on its localization. Related pseudogenes have been defined on chromosomes 8 and 20. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	ADI1 (Acireductone Dioxygenase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include iron ion binding and acireductone dioxygenase [iron(II)-requiring] activity.	Catalyzes the formation of formate and 2-keto-4-methylthiobutyrate (KMTB) from 1,2-dihydroxy-3-keto-5-methylthiopentene (DHK-MTPene). Also down-regulates cell migration mediated by MMP14. Necessary for hepatitis C virus replication in an otherwise non-permissive cell line.	same
ADH6	This gene encodes class V alcohol dehydrogenase, which is a member of the alcohol dehydrogenase family. Members of this family metabolize a wide variety of substrates, including ethanol, retinol, other aliphatic alcohols, hydroxysteroids, and lipid peroxidation products. This gene is expressed in the stomach as well as in the liver, and it contains a glucocorticoid response element upstream of its 5' UTR, which is a steroid hormone receptor binding site. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADH6 (Alcohol Dehydrogenase 6 (Class V)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADH6 include fetal alcohol spectrum disorder and alcohol dependence. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include alcohol dehydrogenase (NAD) activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADH5.	empty	same
ADIPOQ	This gene is expressed in adipose tissue exclusively. It encodes a protein with similarity to collagens X and VIII and complement factor C1q. The encoded protein circulates in the plasma and is involved with metabolic and hormonal processes. Mutations in this gene are associated with adiponectin deficiency. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]	ADIPOQ (Adiponectin, C1Q And Collagen Domain Containing) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADIPOQ include adiponectin deficiency and chronic pulmonary heart disease. Among its related pathways are L1CAM interactions and Glucose / Energy Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and receptor binding. An important paralog of this gene is COL8A1.	Important adipokine involved in the control of fat metabolism and insulin sensitivity, with direct anti-diabetic, anti-atherogenic and anti-inflammatory activities. Stimulates AMPK phosphorylation and activation in the liver and the skeletal muscle, enhancing glucose utilization and fatty-acid combustion. Antagonizes TNF-alpha by negatively regulating its expression in various tissues such as liver and macrophages, and also by counteracting its effects. Inhibits endothelial NF-kappa-B signaling through a cAMP-dependent pathway. May play a role in cell growth, angiogenesis and tissue remodeling by binding and sequestering various growth factors with distinct binding affinities, depending on the type of complex, LMW, MMW or HMW.	same
ADIPOR1	This gene encodes a protein which acts as a receptor for adiponectin, a hormone secreted by adipocytes which regulates fatty acid catabolism and glucose levels. Binding of adiponectin to the encoded protein results in activation of an AMP-activated kinase signaling pathway which affects levels of fatty acid oxidation and insulin sensitivity. A pseudogene of this gene is located on chromosome 14. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2014]	ADIPOR1 (Adiponectin Receptor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADIPOR1 include nonalcoholic steatohepatitis and obesity. Among its related pathways are Adipocytokine signaling pathway and Respiratory electron transport, ATP synthesis by chemiosmotic coupling, and heat production by uncoupling proteins.. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and protein kinase binding. An important paralog of this gene is ADIPOR2.	Receptor for globular and full-length adiponectin (APM1), an essential hormone secreted by adipocytes that acts as an antidiabetic. Probably involved in metabolic pathways that regulate lipid metabolism such as fatty acid oxidation. Mediates increased AMPK, PPARA ligand activity, fatty acid oxidation and glucose uptake by adiponectin. Has some high-affinity receptor for globular adiponectin but low-affinity receptor for full-length adiponectin.	same
ADIPOR2	The adiponectin receptors, ADIPOR1 (MIM 607945) and ADIPOR2, serve as receptors for globular and full-length adiponectin (MIM 605441) and mediate increased AMPK (see MIM 602739) and PPAR-alpha (PPARA; MIM 170998) ligand activities, as well as fatty acid oxidation and glucose uptake by adiponectin (Yamauchi et al., 2003 [PubMed 12802337]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	ADIPOR2 (Adiponectin Receptor 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADIPOR2 include meconium ileus and obesity. Among its related pathways are Adipocytokine signaling pathway and Respiratory electron transport, ATP synthesis by chemiosmotic coupling, and heat production by uncoupling proteins.. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADIPOR1.	Receptor for globular and full-length adiponectin (APM1), an essential hormone secreted by adipocytes that acts as an antidiabetic. Probably involved in metabolic pathways that regulate lipid metabolism such as fatty acid oxidation. Mediates increased AMPK, PPARA ligand activity, fatty acid oxidation and glucose uptake by adiponectin. Has some intermediate-affinity receptor activity for both globular and full-length adiponectin.	same
ADNP2	empty	ADNP2 (ADNP Homeobox 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and sequence-specific DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is ADNP.	May be involved in transcriptional regulation	same
ADIG	ADIG/SMAF1 is an adipocyte-specific protein that plays a role in adipocyte differentiation (Kim et al., 2005 [PubMed 15567149]; Hong et al., 2005 [PubMed 16132694]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	ADIG (Adipogenin) is a Protein Coding gene.	Plays a role in stimulating adipocyte differentiation and development.	same
ADNP	Vasoactive intestinal peptide is a neuroprotective factor that has a stimulatory effect on the growth of some tumor cells and an inhibitory effect on others. This gene encodes a protein that is upregulated by vasoactive intestinal peptide and may be involved in its stimulatory effect on certain tumor cells. The encoded protein contains one homeobox and nine zinc finger domains, suggesting that it functions as a transcription factor. This gene is also upregulated in normal proliferative tissues. Finally, the encoded protein may increase the viability of certain cell types through modulation of p53 activity. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADNP (Activity-Dependent Neuroprotector Homeobox) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADNP include mental retardation, autosomal dominant, 28 and adnp-related multiple congenital anomalies-intellectual disability-autism spectrum disorder. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and chromatin binding. An important paralog of this gene is ADNP2.	Potential transcription factor. May mediate some of the neuroprotective peptide VIP-associated effects involving normal growth and cancer proliferation	same
ADK	This gene an enzyme which catalyzes the transfer of the gamma-phosphate from ATP to adenosine, thereby serving as a regulator of concentrations of both extracellular adenosine and intracellular adenine nucleotides. Adenosine has widespread effects on the cardiovascular, nervous, respiratory, and immune systems and inhibitors of the enzyme could play an important pharmacological role in increasing intravascular adenosine concentrations and acting as anti-inflammatory agents. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]	ADK (Adenosine Kinase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADK include hypermethioninemia due to adenosine kinase deficiency and hypermethioninemia encephalopathy due to adenosine kinase deficiency. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include phosphotransferase activity, alcohol group as acceptor.	ATP dependent phosphorylation of adenosine and other related nucleoside analogs to monophosphate derivatives. Serves as a potential regulator of concentrations of extracellular adenosine and intracellular adenine nucleotides	same
ADH4	This gene encodes class II alcohol dehydrogenase 4 pi subunit, which is a member of the alcohol dehydrogenase family. Members of this enzyme family metabolize a wide variety of substrates, including ethanol, retinol, other aliphatic alcohols, hydroxysteroids, and lipid peroxidation products. Class II alcohol dehydrogenase is a homodimer composed of 2 pi subunits. It exhibits a high activity for oxidation of long-chain aliphatic alcohols and aromatic alcohols and is less sensitive to pyrazole. This gene is localized to chromosome 4 in the cluster of alcohol dehydrogenase genes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADH4 (Alcohol Dehydrogenase 4 (Class II), Pi Polypeptide) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADH4 include alcoholic liver cirrhosis and substance abuse. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include NAD binding and retinol binding. An important paralog of this gene is ADH6.	empty	same
ADORA1	The protein encoded by this gene is an adenosine receptor that belongs to the G-protein coupled receptor 1 family. There are 3 types of adenosine receptors, each with a specific pattern of ligand binding and tissue distribution, and together they regulate a diverse set of physiologic functions. The type A1 receptors inhibit adenylyl cyclase, and play a role in the fertilization process. Animal studies also suggest a role for A1 receptors in kidney function and ethanol intoxication. Transcript variants with alternative splicing in the 5' UTR have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADORA1 (Adenosine A1 Receptor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADORA1 include brain ischemia and retinal ischemia. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include protein heterodimerization activity and G-protein beta/gamma-subunit complex binding. An important paralog of this gene is GPR119.	Receptor for adenosine. The activity of this receptor is mediated by G proteins which inhibit adenylyl cyclase	same
ADM2	This gene encodes a protein which is a member of the calcitonin-related hormones. The encoded protein is involved in maintaining homeostasis in many tissues, acting via CRLR/RAMP receptor (calcitonin receptor-like receptor/receptor activity-modifying protein) complexes. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	ADM2 (Adrenomedullin 2) is a Protein Coding gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include protein complex binding and hormone activity.	IMDL and IMDS may play a role as physiological regulators of gastrointestinal, cardiovascular bioactivities mediated by the CALCRL/RAMPs receptor complexes. Activates the cAMP-dependent pathway.	same
ADORA2A	This gene encodes a member of the guanine nucleotide-binding protein (G protein)-coupled receptor (GPCR) superfamily, which is subdivided into classes and subtypes. The receptors are seven-pass transmembrane proteins that respond to extracellular cues and activate intracellular signal transduction pathways. This protein, an adenosine receptor of A2A subtype, uses adenosine as the preferred endogenous agonist and preferentially interacts with the G(s) and G(olf) family of G proteins to increase intracellular cAMP levels. It plays an important role in many biological functions, such as cardiac rhythm and circulation, cerebral and renal blood flow, immune function, pain regulation, and sleep. It has been implicated in pathophysiological conditions such as inflammatory diseases and neurodegenerative disorders. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A read-through transcript composed of the upstream SPECC1L (sperm antigen with calponin homology and coiled-coil domains 1-like) and ADORA2A (adenosine A2a receptor) gene sequence has been identified, but it is thought to be non-coding. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2013]	ADORA2A (Adenosine A2a Receptor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADORA2A include acute encephalopathy with biphasic seizures and late reduced diffusion and ischemia. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and enzyme binding. An important paralog of this gene is GPR119.	Receptor for adenosine. The activity of this receptor is mediated by G proteins which activate adenylyl cyclase	same
ADO	Human thiol dioxygenases include cysteine dioxygenase (CDO; MIM 603943) and cysteamine (2-aminoethanethiol) dioxygenase (ADO; EC 1.13.11.19). CDO adds 2 oxygen atoms to free cysteine, whereas ADO adds 2 oxygen atoms to free cysteamine to form hypotaurine (Dominy et al., 2007 [PubMed 17581819]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	ADO (2-Aminoethanethiol (Cysteamine) Dioxygenase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADO include ewing sarcoma. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Taurine and hypotaurine metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include cysteamine dioxygenase activity.	empty	same
ADPGK	ADPGK (EC 2.7.1.147) catalyzes the ADP-dependent phosphorylation of glucose to glucose-6-phosphate and may play a role in glycolysis, possibly during ischemic conditions (Ronimus and Morgan, 2004 [PubMed 14975750]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	ADPGK (ADP-Dependent Glucokinase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADPGK include monogenic diabetes. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Carbon metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include ADP-specific glucokinase activity.	Catalyzes the phosphorylation of D-glucose to D-glucose 6-phosphate using ADP as the phosphate donor. GDP and CDP can replace ADP, but with reduced efficiency (By similarity).	same
ADPRHL1	ADP-ribosylation is a reversible posttranslational modification used to regulate protein function. ADP-ribosyltransferases (see ART1; MIM 601625) transfer ADP-ribose from NAD+ to the target protein, and ADP-ribosylhydrolases, such as ADPRHL1, reverse the reaction (Glowacki et al., 2002 [PubMed 12070318]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	ADPRHL1 (ADP-Ribosylhydrolase Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include magnesium ion binding and ADP-ribosylarginine hydrolase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADPRH.	empty	same
ADPRH	The enzyme encoded by this gene catalyzes removal of mono-ADP-ribose from arginine residues of proteins in the ADP-ribosylation cycle. Unlike the rat and mouse enzymes that require DTT for maximal activity, the human enzyme is DTT-independent. Alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, May 2014]	ADPRH (ADP-Ribosylarginine Hydrolase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADPRH include glycine n-methyltransferase deficiency and stuttering. GO annotations related to this gene include magnesium ion binding and ADP-ribosylarginine hydrolase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADPRHL1.	Catalyzes the reverse reaction of mono-ADP-ribosylation	same
ADPRHL2	This gene encodes a member of the ADP-ribosylglycohydrolase family. The encoded enzyme catalyzes the removal of ADP-ribose from ADP-ribosylated proteins. This enzyme localizes to the mitochondria, in addition to the nucleus and cytoplasm.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]	ADPRHL2 (ADP-Ribosylhydrolase Like 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include poly(ADP-ribose) glycohydrolase activity.	Poly(ADP-ribose) synthesized after DNA damage is only present transiently and is rapidly degraded by poly(ADP-ribose) glycohydrolase. Poly(ADP-ribose) metabolism may be required for maintenance of the normal function of neuronal cells. Generates ADP-ribose from poly-(ADP-ribose), but does not hydrolyze ADP-ribose-arginine, -cysteine, -diphthamide, or -asparagine bonds. Due to catalytic inactivity of PARG mitochondrial isoforms, ARH3 is the only PAR hydrolyzing enzyme in mitochondria.	same
ADRA1A	Alpha-1-adrenergic receptors (alpha-1-ARs) are members of the G protein-coupled receptor superfamily. They activate mitogenic responses and regulate growth and proliferation of many cells. There are 3 alpha-1-AR subtypes: alpha-1A, -1B and -1D, all of which signal through the Gq/11 family of G-proteins and different subtypes show different patterns of activation. This gene encodes alpha-1A-adrenergic receptor. Alternative splicing of this gene generates four transcript variants, which encode four different isoforms with distinct C-termini but having similar ligand binding properties. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADRA1A (Adrenoceptor Alpha 1A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADRA1A include ureterolithiasis. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include protein heterodimerization activity and alpha1-adrenergic receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is HTR1F.	This alpha-adrenergic receptor mediates its action by association with G proteins that activate a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system. Its effect is mediated by G(q) and G(11) proteins. Nuclear ADRA1A-ADRA1B heterooligomers regulate phenylephrine(PE)-stimulated ERK signaling in cardiac myocytes.	same
ADRA2C	Alpha-2-adrenergic receptors are members of the G protein-coupled receptor superfamily. They include 3 highly homologous subtypes: alpha2A, alpha2B, and alpha2C. These receptors have a critical role in regulating neurotransmitter release from sympathetic nerves and from adrenergic neurons in the central nervous system. The mouse studies revealed that both the alpha2A and alpha2C subtypes were required for normal presynaptic control of transmitter release from sympathetic nerves in the heart and from central noradrenergic neurons. The alpha2A subtype inhibited transmitter release at high stimulation frequencies, whereas the alpha2C subtype modulated neurotransmission at lower levels of nerve activity. This gene encodes the alpha2C subtype, which contains no introns in either its coding or untranslated sequences. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADRA2C (Adrenoceptor Alpha 2C) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADRA2C include orthostatic intolerance and congestive heart failure. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and alpha-2A adrenergic receptor binding. An important paralog of this gene is HTR1F.	Alpha-2 adrenergic receptors mediate the catecholamine-induced inhibition of adenylate cyclase through the action of G proteins	same
ADRA2B	This intronless gene encodes a seven-pass transmembrane protein. This protein is a member of a subfamily of G protein-coupled receptors that regulate neurotransmitter release from sympathetic nerves and from adrenergic neurons in the central nervous system. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2014]	ADRA2B (Adrenoceptor Alpha 2B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADRA2B include benign adult familial myoclonic epilepsy and coronary restenosis. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include epinephrine binding and alpha2-adrenergic receptor activity.	Alpha-2 adrenergic receptors mediate the catecholamine-induced inhibition of adenylate cyclase through the action of G proteins. The rank order of potency for agonists of this receptor is clonidine > norepinephrine > epinephrine = oxymetazoline > dopamine > p-tyramine = phenylephrine > serotonin > p-synephrine / p-octopamine. For antagonists, the rank order is yohimbine > chlorpromazine > phentolamine > mianserine > spiperone > prazosin > alprenolol > propanolol > pindolol.	same
ADM	The protein encoded by this gene is a preprohormone which is cleaved to form two biologically active peptides, adrenomedullin and proadrenomedullin N-terminal 20 peptide. Adrenomedullin is a 52 aa peptide with several functions, including vasodilation, regulation of hormone secretion, promotion of angiogenesis, and antimicrobial activity. The antimicrobial activity is antibacterial, as the peptide has been shown to kill E. coli and S. aureus at low concentration. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2014]	ADM (Adrenomedullin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADM include nephrosclerosis and malignant hypertension. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and adrenomedullin receptor binding.	AM and PAMP are potent hypotensive and vasodilatator agents. Numerous actions have been reported most related to the physiologic control of fluid and electrolyte homeostasis. In the kidney, am is diuretic and natriuretic, and both am and pamp inhibit aldosterone secretion by direct adrenal actions. In pituitary gland, both peptides at physiologically relevant doses inhibit basal ACTH secretion. Both peptides appear to act in brain and pituitary gland to facilitate the loss of plasma volume, actions which complement their hypotensive effects in blood vessels	same
ADRB1	The adrenergic receptors (subtypes alpha 1, alpha 2, beta 1, and beta 2) are a prototypic family of guanine nucleotide binding regulatory protein-coupled receptors that mediate the physiological effects of the hormone epinephrine and the neurotransmitter norepinephrine. Specific polymorphisms in this gene have been shown to affect the resting heart rate and can be involved in heart failure. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADRB1 (Adrenoceptor Beta 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADRB1 include chagas disease and aortic coarctation. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include protein heterodimerization activity and drug binding. An important paralog of this gene is TAAR9.	Beta-adrenergic receptors mediate the catecholamine-induced activation of adenylate cyclase through the action of G proteins. This receptor binds epinephrine and norepinephrine with approximately equal affinity. Mediates Ras activation through G(s)-alpha- and cAMP-mediated signaling.	same
ADCY1	This gene encodes a member of the of adenylate cyclase gene family that is primarily expressed in the brain. This protein is regulated by calcium/calmodulin concentration and may be involved in brain development. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2013]	ADCY1 (Adenylate Cyclase 1 (Brain)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADCY1 include deafness, autosomal recessive 44 and autosomal recessive non-syndromic sensorineural deafness type dfnb. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include calmodulin binding and calcium- and calmodulin-responsive adenylate cyclase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADCY5.	This is a calmodulin-sensitive adenylyl cyclase. May be involved in regulatory processes in the central nervous system. It may play a role in memory acquisition and learning. Plays a role in the regulation of the circadian rhythm of daytime contrast sensitivity probably by modulating the rhythmic synthesis of cyclic AMP in the retina (By similarity).	same
ADSL	Adenylsuccinate lyase is involved in both de novo synthesis of purines and formation of adenosine monophosphate from inosine monophosphate. It catalyzes two reactions in AMP biosynthesis: the removal of a fumarate from succinylaminoimidazole carboxamide (SAICA) ribotide to give aminoimidazole carboxamide ribotide (AICA) and removal of fumarate from adenylosuccinate to give AMP. Adenylosuccinase deficiency results in succinylpurinemic autism, psychomotor retardation, and , in some cases, growth retardation associated with muscle wasting and epilepsy. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADSL (Adenylosuccinate Lyase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADSL include adenylosuccinase deficiency and histidinemia. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Carbon metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include N6-(1,2-dicarboxyethyl)AMP AMP-lyase (fumarate-forming) activity and (S)-2-(5-amino-1-(5-phospho-D-ribosyl)imidazole-4-carboxamido)succinate AMP-lyase (fumarate-forming) activity.	Catalyzes two non-sequential steps in de novo AMP synthesis: converts (S)-2-(5-amino-1-(5-phospho-D-ribosyl)imidazole-4-carboxamido)succinate (SAICAR) to fumarate plus 5-amino-1-(5-phospho-D-ribosyl)imidazole-4-carboxamide, and thereby also contributes to de novo IMP synthesis, and converts succinyladenosine monophosphate (SAMP) to AMP and fumarate	same
ADRA1D	Alpha-1-adrenergic receptors (alpha-1-ARs) are members of the G protein-coupled receptor superfamily. They activate mitogenic responses and regulate growth and proliferation of many cells. There are 3 alpha-1-AR subtypes: alpha-1A, -1B and -1D, all of which signal through the Gq/11 family of G-proteins and different subtypes show different patterns of activation. This gene encodes alpha-1D-adrenergic receptor. Similar to alpha-1B-adrenergic receptor gene, this gene comprises 2 exons and a single intron that interrupts the coding region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADRA1D (Adrenoceptor Alpha 1D) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADRA1D include impotence. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include alpha1-adrenergic receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is HTR1F.	This alpha-adrenergic receptor mediates its effect through the influx of extracellular calcium	same
ADSS	This gene encodes the enzyme adenylosuccinate synthetase which catalyzes the first committed step in the conversion of inosine monophosphate to adenosine monophosphate. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome 17.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]	ADSS (Adenylosuccinate Synthase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADSS include relapsing fever. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding and phosphate ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is ADSSL1.	Plays an important role in the de novo pathway and in the salvage pathway of purine nucleotide biosynthesis. Catalyzes the first committed step in the biosynthesis of AMP from IMP	same
ADRB2	This gene encodes beta-2-adrenergic receptor which is a member of the G protein-coupled receptor superfamily. This receptor is directly associated with one of its ultimate effectors, the class C L-type calcium channel Ca(V)1.2. This receptor-channel complex also contains a G protein, an adenylyl cyclase, cAMP-dependent kinase, and the counterbalancing phosphatase, PP2A. The assembly of the signaling complex provides a mechanism that ensures specific and rapid signaling by this G protein-coupled receptor. This gene is intronless. Different polymorphic forms, point mutations, and/or downregulation of this gene are associated with nocturnal asthma, obesity and type 2 diabetes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADRB2 (Adrenoceptor Beta 2, Surface) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADRB2 include status asthmaticus and asthma. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and adenylate cyclase binding. An important paralog of this gene is TAAR9.	Beta-adrenergic receptors mediate the catecholamine-induced activation of adenylate cyclase through the action of G proteins. The beta-2-adrenergic receptor binds epinephrine with an approximately 30-fold greater affinity than it does norepinephrine	same
ADRM1	This gene encodes a member of the adhesion regulating molecule 1 protein family. The encoded protein is a component of the proteasome where it acts as a ubiquitin receptor and recruits the deubiquitinating enzyme, ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase L5. Increased levels of the encoded protein are associated with increased cell adhesion, which is likely an indirect effect of this intracellular protein. Dysregulation of this gene has been implicated in carcinogenesis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]	ADRM1 (Adhesion Regulating Molecule 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Protein Stability. GO annotations related to this gene include protease binding and endopeptidase activator activity.	Functions as a proteasomal ubiquitin receptor. Recruits the deubiquitinating enzyme UCHL5 at the 26S proteasome and promotes its activity.	same
ADRA2A	Alpha-2-adrenergic receptors are members of the G protein-coupled receptor superfamily. They include 3 highly homologous subtypes: alpha2A, alpha2B, and alpha2C. These receptors have a critical role in regulating neurotransmitter release from sympathetic nerves and from adrenergic neurons in the central nervous system. Studies in mouse revealed that both the alpha2A and alpha2C subtypes were required for normal presynaptic control of transmitter release from sympathetic nerves in the heart and from central noradrenergic neurons; the alpha2A subtype inhibited transmitter release at high stimulation frequencies, whereas the alpha2C subtype modulated neurotransmission at lower levels of nerve activity. This gene encodes alpha2A subtype and it contains no introns in either its coding or untranslated sequences. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADRA2A (Adrenoceptor Alpha 2A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADRA2A include motion sickness and systolic heart failure. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and protein kinase binding. An important paralog of this gene is HTR1F.	Alpha-2 adrenergic receptors mediate the catecholamine-induced inhibition of adenylate cyclase through the action of G proteins. The rank order of potency for agonists of this receptor is oxymetazoline > clonidine > epinephrine > norepinephrine > phenylephrine > dopamine > p-synephrine > p-tyramine > serotonin = p-octopamine. For antagonists, the rank order is yohimbine > phentolamine = mianserine > chlorpromazine = spiperone = prazosin > propanolol > alprenolol = pindolol.	same
ADORA2B	This gene encodes an adenosine receptor that is a member of the G protein-coupled receptor superfamily. This integral membrane protein stimulates adenylate cyclase activity in the presence of adenosine. This protein also interacts with netrin-1, which is involved in axon elongation. The gene is located near the Smith-Magenis syndrome region on chromosome 17. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADORA2B (Adenosine A2b Receptor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADORA2B include priapism. Among its related pathways are Ras signaling pathway and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include G-protein coupled adenosine receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is GPR119.	Receptor for adenosine. The activity of this receptor is mediated by G proteins which activate adenylyl cyclase	same
AEBP2	empty	AEBP2 (AE Binding Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include transcription corepressor activity.	DNA-binding transcriptional repressor. May interact with and stimulate the activity of the PRC2 complex, which methylates Lys-9 and Lys-27 residues of histone H3.	same
ADORA3	This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the family of adenosine receptors, which are G-protein-coupled receptors that are involved in a variety of intracellular signaling pathways and physiological functions. The receptor encoded by this gene mediates a sustained cardioprotective function during cardiac ischemia, it is involved in the inhibition of neutrophil degranulation in neutrophil-mediated tissue injury, it has been implicated in both neuroprotective and neurodegenerative effects, and it may also mediate both cell proliferation and cell death. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. This gene shares its 5' terminal exon with some transcripts from overlapping GeneID:57413, which encodes an immunoglobulin domain-containing protein. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]	ADORA3 (Adenosine A3 Receptor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADORA3 include ischemia and brain ischemia. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include G-protein coupled adenosine receptor activity.	Receptor for adenosine. The activity of this receptor is mediated by G proteins which inhibits adenylyl cyclase. Possible role in reproduction	same
AEBP1	This gene encodes a member of carboxypeptidase A protein family. The encoded protein may function as a transcriptional repressor and play a role in adipogenesis and smooth muscle cell differentiation. Studies in mice suggest that this gene functions in wound healing and abdominal wall development. Overexpression of this gene is associated with glioblastoma. [provided by RefSeq, May 2013]	AEBP1 (AE Binding Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AEBP1 include gastroschisis and glioblastoma. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and calmodulin binding. An important paralog of this gene is CPN1.	May positively regulate MAP-kinase activity in adipocytes, leading to enhanced adipocyte proliferation and reduced adipocyte differentiation. May also positively regulate NF-kappa-B activity in macrophages by promoting the phosphorylation and subsequent degradation of I-kappa-B-alpha (NFKBIA), leading to enhanced macrophage inflammatory responsiveness. Can act as a transcriptional repressor.	same
ADSSL1	ADSSL1 is a muscle isozyme of adenylosuccinate synthase (EC 6.3.4.4), which catalyzes the initial reaction in the conversion of inosine monophosphate (IMP) to adenosine monophosphate (AMP) (Sun et al., 2005 [PubMed 15786719]).[supplied by OMIM, Dec 2008]	ADSSL1 (Adenylosuccinate Synthase Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding and phosphate ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is ADSS.	Component of the purine nucleotide cycle (PNC), which interconverts IMP and AMP to regulate the nucleotide levels in various tissues, and which contributes to glycolysis and ammoniagenesis. Catalyzes the first committed step in the biosynthesis of AMP from IMP (By similarity).	same
AFAP1L1	empty	AFAP1L1 (Actin Filament Associated Protein 1-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AFAP1L1 include spindle cell sarcoma. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is AFAP1.	May be involved in podosome and invadosome formation.	same
ADRBK1	The product of this gene phosphorylates the beta-2-adrenergic receptor and appears to mediate agonist-specific desensitization observed at high agonist concentrations. This protein is an ubiquitous cytosolic enzyme that specifically phosphorylates the activated form of the beta-adrenergic and related G-protein-coupled receptors. Abnormal coupling of beta-adrenergic receptor to G protein is involved in the pathogenesis of the failing heart. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADRBK1 (Adrenergic, Beta, Receptor Kinase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and G-protein coupled receptor kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AKT1.	Specifically phosphorylates the agonist-occupied form of the beta-adrenergic and closely related receptors, probably inducing a desensitization of them. Key regulator of LPAR1 signaling. Competes with RALA for binding to LPAR1 thus affecting the signaling properties of the receptor. Desensitizes LPAR1 and LPAR2 in a phosphorylation-independent manner.	same
AFARP1	empty	AKR7A2P1 (Aldo-Keto Reductase Family 7, Member A2 Pseudogene 1) is a Pseudogene.	empty	diff
ADRA1B	Alpha-1-adrenergic receptors (alpha-1-ARs) are members of the G protein-coupled receptor superfamily. They activate mitogenic responses and regulate growth and proliferation of many cells. There are 3 alpha-1-AR subtypes: alpha-1A, -1B and -1D, all of which signal through the Gq/11 family of G-proteins and different subtypes show different patterns of activation. This gene encodes alpha-1B-adrenergic receptor, which induces neoplastic transformation when transfected into NIH 3T3 fibroblasts and other cell lines. Thus, this normal cellular gene is identified as a protooncogene. This gene comprises 2 exons and a single large intron of at least 20 kb that interrupts the coding region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADRA1B (Adrenoceptor Alpha 1B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADRA1B include ureterolithiasis. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include protein heterodimerization activity and alpha1-adrenergic receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is HTR1F.	This alpha-adrenergic receptor mediates its action by association with G proteins that activate a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system. Its effect is mediated by G(q) and G(11) proteins. Nuclear ADRA1A-ADRA1B heterooligomers regulate phenylephrine (PE)-stimulated ERK signaling in cardiac myocytes.	same
AFF2	This gene encodes a putative transcriptional activator that is a member of the AF4\FMR2 gene family. This gene is associated with the folate-sensitive fragile X E locus on chromosome X. A repeat polymorphism in the fragile X E locus results in silencing of this gene causing Fragile X E syndrome. Fragile X E syndrome is a form of nonsyndromic X-linked mental retardation. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]	AFF2 (AF4/FMR2 Family, Member 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AFF2 include mental retardation, x-linked, fraxe type and spotted fever. GO annotations related to this gene include G-quadruplex RNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is AFF1.	RNA-binding protein. Might be involved in alternative splicing regulation through an interaction with G-quartet RNA structure.	same
AFG3L1	empty	AFG3L1P (AFG3-Like AAA ATPase 1, Pseudogene) is a Pseudogene.	empty	diff
ADRB3	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of beta adrenergic receptors, which mediate catecholamine-induced activation of adenylate cyclase through the action of G proteins. This receptor is located mainly in the adipose tissue and is involved in the regulation of lipolysis and thermogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]	ADRB3 (Adrenoceptor Beta 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADRB3 include obesity due to melanocortin 4 receptor deficiency and morbid obesity. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and norepinephrine binding. An important paralog of this gene is TAAR9.	Beta-adrenergic receptors mediate the catecholamine-induced activation of adenylate cyclase through the action of G proteins. Beta-3 is involved in the regulation of lipolysis and thermogenesis	same
AFAP1L2	empty	AFAP1L2 (Actin Filament Associated Protein 1-Like 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cytoskeletal Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and SH2 domain binding. An important paralog of this gene is AFAP1.	May play a role in a signaling cascade by enhancing the kinase activity of SRC. Contributes to SRC-regulated transcription activation.	same
AFM	This gene is a member of the albumin gene family, which is comprised of four genes that localize to chromosome 4 in a tandem arrangement. These four genes encode structurally-related serum transport proteins that are known to be evolutionarily related. The protein encoded by this gene is regulated developmentally, expressed in the liver and secreted into the bloodstream. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AFM (Afamin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AFM include squamous papillomatosis and trigonitis. GO annotations related to this gene include vitamin E binding. An important paralog of this gene is AFP.	Vitamin E binding protein. May transport vitamin E in body fluids under conditions where the lipoprotein system is not sufficient. May be involved in the regulation and transport of vitamin E at the blood-brain barrier.	same
AFP	This gene encodes alpha-fetoprotein, a major plasma protein produced by the yolk sac and the liver during fetal life. Alpha-fetoprotein expression in adults is often associated with hepatoma or teratoma. However, hereditary persistance of alpha-fetoprotein may also be found in individuals with no obvious pathology. The protein is thought to be the fetal counterpart of serum albumin, and the alpha-fetoprotein and albumin genes are present in tandem in the same transcriptional orientation on chromosome 4. Alpha-fetoprotein is found in monomeric as well as dimeric and trimeric forms, and binds copper, nickel, fatty acids and bilirubin. The level of alpha-fetoprotein in amniotic fluid is used to measure renal loss of protein to screen for spina bifida and anencephaly. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AFP (Alpha-Fetoprotein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AFP include alpha-fetoprotein deficiency and hereditary persistence of alpha-fetoprotein. Among its related pathways are amb2 Integrin signaling and Hippo signaling pathway. An important paralog of this gene is AFM.	Binds copper, nickel, and fatty acids as well as, and bilirubin less well than, serum albumin. Only a small percentage (less than 2%) of the human AFP shows estrogen-binding properties	same
AFTPH	empty	AFTPH (Aftiphilin) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include clathrin binding.	May play a role in membrane trafficking	same
AEN	empty	AEN (Apoptosis Enhancing Nuclease) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleic acid binding and exonuclease activity. An important paralog of this gene is ISG20.	Exonuclease with activity against single- and double-stranded DNA and RNA. Mediates p53-induced apoptosis. When induced by p53 following DNA damage, digests double-stranded DNA to form single-stranded DNA and amplifies DNA damage signals, leading to enhancement of apoptosis.	same
AG2	empty	empty	empty	same
ADRBK2	The beta-adrenergic receptor kinase specifically phosphorylates the agonist-occupied form of the beta-adrenergic and related G protein-coupled receptors. Overall, the beta adrenergic receptor kinase 2 has 85% amino acid similarity with beta adrenergic receptor kinase 1, with the protein kinase catalytic domain having 95% similarity. These data suggest the existence of a family of receptor kinases which may serve broadly to regulate receptor function. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADRBK2 (Adrenergic, Beta, Receptor Kinase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADRBK2 include whim syndrome. Among its related pathways are Endocytosis and Chemokine Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and G-protein coupled receptor kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AKT1.	Specifically phosphorylates the agonist-occupied form of the beta-adrenergic and closely related receptors	same
AGAP5	empty	AGAP5 (ArfGAP With GTPase Domain, Ankyrin Repeat And PH Domain 5) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is ASAP3.	Putative GTPase-activating protein.	same
AGAP4	empty	AGAP4 (ArfGAP With GTPase Domain, Ankyrin Repeat And PH Domain 4) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is ASAP3.	Putative GTPase-activating protein.	same
AGAP1	This gene encodes a member of an ADP-ribosylation factor GTPase-activating protein family involved in membrane trafficking and cytoskeleton dynamics. This gene functions as a direct regulator of the adaptor-related protein complex 3 on endosomes. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]	AGAP1 (ArfGAP With GTPase Domain, Ankyrin Repeat And PH Domain 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Endocytosis. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding. An important paralog of this gene is ASAP3.	GTPase-activating protein for ARF1 and, to a lesser extent, ARF5. Directly and specifically regulates the adapter protein 3 (AP-3)-dependent trafficking of proteins in the endosomal-lysosomal system.	same
AGAP2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the centaurin gamma-like family. It mediates anti-apoptotic effects of nerve growth factor by activating nuclear phosphoinositide 3-kinase. It is overexpressed in cancer cells, and promotes cancer cell invasion. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	AGAP2 (ArfGAP With GTPase Domain, Ankyrin Repeat And PH Domain 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AGAP2 include anisakiasis and diphyllobothriasis. Among its related pathways are L1CAM interactions and Endocytosis. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding. An important paralog of this gene is ASAP3.	GTPase-activating protein (GAP) for ARF1 and ARF5, which also shows strong GTPase activity. Isoform 1 participates in the prevention of neuronal apoptosis by enhancing PI3 kinase activity. It aids the coupling of metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 (GRM1) to cytoplasmic PI3 kinase by interacting with Homer scaffolding proteins, and also seems to mediate anti-apoptotic effects of NGF by activating nuclear PI3 kinase. Isoform 2 does not stimulate PI3 kinase but may protect cells from apoptosis by stimulating Akt. It also regulates the adapter protein 1 (AP-1)-dependent trafficking of proteins in the endosomal system. It seems to be oncogenic. It is overexpressed in cancer cells, prevents apoptosis and promotes cancer cell invasion.	same
AGAP8	empty	AGAP4 (ArfGAP With GTPase Domain, Ankyrin Repeat And PH Domain 4) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is ASAP3.	Putative GTPase-activating protein.	diff
AGAP6	empty	AGAP6 (ArfGAP With GTPase Domain, Ankyrin Repeat And PH Domain 6) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is ASAP3.	Putative GTPase-activating protein.	same
AFMID	empty	AFMID (Arylformamidase) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include arylformamidase activity.	Catalyzes the hydrolysis of N-formyl-L-kynurenine to L-kynurenine, the second step in the kynurenine pathway of tryptophan degradation. Kynurenine may be further oxidized to nicotinic acid, NAD(H) and NADP(H). Required for elimination of toxic metabolites.	same
AGAP7	empty	AGAP7P (ArfGAP With GTPase Domain, Ankyrin Repeat And PH Domain 7, Pseudogene) is a Pseudogene. An important paralog of this gene is AGAP4.	Putative GTPase-activating protein.	diff
AFAP1	The protein encoded by this gene is a Src binding partner. It may represent a potential modulator of actin filament integrity in response to cellular signals, and may function as an adaptor protein by linking Src family members and/or other signaling proteins to actin filaments. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]	AFAP1 (Actin Filament Associated Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Immune response IFN gamma signaling pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and actin binding. An important paralog of this gene is AFAP1L2.	Can cross-link actin filaments into both network and bundle structures (By similarity). May modulate changes in actin filament integrity and induce lamellipodia formation. May function as an adapter molecule that links other proteins, such as SRC and PKC to the actin cytoskeleton. Seems to play a role in the development and progression of prostate adenocarcinoma by regulating cell-matrix adhesions and migration in the cancer cells.	same
AFF4	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the AF4 family of transcription factors involved in leukemia. It is a component of the positive transcription elongation factor b (P-TEFb) complex. A chromosomal translocation involving this gene and MLL gene on chromosome 11 is found in infant acute lymphoblastic leukemia with ins(5;11)(q31;q31q23). [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]	AFF4 (AF4/FMR2 Family, Member 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AFF4 include lymphoblastic leukemia. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is AFF1.	Key component of the super elongation complex (SEC), a complex required to increase the catalytic rate of RNA polymerase II transcription by suppressing transient pausing by the polymerase at multiple sites along the DNA. In the SEC complex, AFF4 acts as a central scaffold that recruits other factors through direct interactions with ELL proteins (ELL, ELL2 or ELL3) and the P-TEFb complex. In case of infection by HIV-1 virus, the SEC complex is recruited by the viral Tat protein to stimulate viral gene expression.	same
AFF3	This gene encodes a tissue-restricted nuclear transcriptional activator that is preferentially expressed in lymphoid tissue. Isolation of this protein initially defined a highly conserved LAF4/MLLT2 gene family of nuclear transcription factors that may function in lymphoid development and oncogenesis. In some ALL patients, this gene has been found fused to the gene for MLL. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different proteins have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AFF3 (AF4/FMR2 Family, Member 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AFF3 include fibular aplasia. GO annotations related to this gene include double-stranded DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is AFF1.	Putative transcription activator that may function in lymphoid development and oncogenesis. Binds, in vitro, to double-stranded DNA	same
AGBL1	Polyglutamylation is a reversible posttranslational modification catalyzed by polyglutamylases that results in the addition of glutamate side chains on the modified protein. This gene encodes a glutamate decarboxylase that catalyzes the deglutamylation of polyglutamylated proteins. Mutations in this gene result in dominant late-onset Fuchs corneal dystrophy. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2013]	AGBL1 (ATP/GTP Binding Protein-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AGBL1 include corneal dystrophy, fuchs endothelial, 8 and fuchs' endothelial dystrophy. GO annotations related to this gene include tubulin binding and metallocarboxypeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AGBL2.	Metallocarboxypeptidase that mediates deglutamylation of target proteins. Catalyzes the deglutamylation of polyglutamate side chains generated by post-translational polyglutamylation in proteins such as tubulins. Also removes gene-encoded polyglutamates from the carboxy-terminus of target proteins such as MYLK. Acts as a long-chain deglutamylase and specifically shortens long polyglutamate chains, while it is not able to remove the branching point glutamate, a process catalyzed by AGBL5/CCP5.	same
AGA	Aspartylglucosaminidase is involved in the catabolism of N-linked oligosaccharides of glycoproteins. It cleaves asparagine from N-acetylglucosamines as one of the final steps in the lysosomal breakdown of glycoproteins. The lysosomal storage disease aspartylglycosaminuria is caused by a deficiency in the AGA enzyme. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]	AGA (Aspartylglucosaminidase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AGA include aspartylglucosaminuria and lysosomal storage disease. Among its related pathways are Integrated Pancreatic Cancer Pathway and Lysosome. GO annotations related to this gene include peptidase activity and N4-(beta-N-acetylglucosaminyl)-L-asparaginase activity. An important paralog of this gene is TASP1.	Cleaves the GlcNAc-Asn bond which joins oligosaccharides to the peptide of asparagine-linked glycoproteins	same
AES	The protein encoded by this gene is similar in sequence to the amino terminus of Drosophila enhancer of split groucho, a protein involved in neurogenesis during embryonic development. The encoded protein, which belongs to the groucho/TLE family of proteins, can function as a homooligomer or as a heteroologimer with other family members to dominantly repress the expression of other family member genes. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AES (Amino-Terminal Enhancer Of Split) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AES include autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome type 2. Among its related pathways are Regulation of Wnt-mediated beta catenin signaling and target gene transcription and Androgen receptor signaling pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include transcription corepressor activity. An important paralog of this gene is TLE4.	Transcriptional corepressor. Acts as dominant repressor towards other family members. Inhibits NF-kappa-B-regulated gene expression. May be required for the initiation and maintenance of the differentiated state. Essential for the transcriptional repressor activity of SIX3 during retina and lens development.	same
AGAP11	empty	AGAP11 (Ankyrin Repeat And GTPase Domain Arf GTPase Activating Protein 11) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is LOC101060581.	Putative GTPase-activating protein.	same
AGAP3	empty	AGAP3 (ArfGAP With GTPase Domain, Ankyrin Repeat And PH Domain 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Endocytosis. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding and GTPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ASAP3.	GTPase-activating protein for the ADP ribosylation factor family (Potential). GTPase which may be involved in the degradation of expanded polyglutamine proteins through the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway.	same
AGBL4	empty	AGBL4 (ATP/GTP Binding Protein-Like 4) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include tubulin binding and metallocarboxypeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AGBL2.	Metallocarboxypeptidase that mediates deglutamylation of target proteins. Catalyzes the deglutamylation of polyglutamate side chains generated by post-translational polyglutamylation in proteins such as tubulins. Also removes gene-encoded polyglutamates from the carboxy-terminus of target proteins such as MYLK. Acts as a long-chain deglutamylase and specifically shortens long polyglutamate chains, while it is not able to remove the branching point glutamate, a process catalyzed by AGBL5/CCP5.	same
AGBL2	empty	AGBL2 (ATP/GTP Binding Protein-Like 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include metallocarboxypeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AGBL3.	Metallocarboxypeptidase that mediates deglutamylation of target proteins. Catalyzes the deglutamylation of polyglutamate side chains generated by post-translational polyglutamylation in proteins such as tubulins. Also removes gene-encoded polyglutamates from the carboxy-terminus of target proteins such as MYLK. Does not show detyrosinase or deglycylase activities from the carboxy-terminus of tubulin.	same
AGFG2	This gene is a member of the HIV-1 Rev binding protein (HRB) family and encodes a protein with one Arf-GAP zinc finger domain, several phe-gly (FG) motifs, and four asn-pro-phe (NPF) motifs. This protein interacts with Eps15 homology (EH) domains and plays a role in the Rev export pathway, which mediates the nucleocytoplasmic transfer of proteins and RNAs. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described, but their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2013]	AGFG2 (ArfGAP With FG Repeats 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AGFG2 include xerophthalmia and hiv-1. An important paralog of this gene is AGFG1.	empty	same
AGER	The advanced glycosylation end product (AGE) receptor encoded by this gene is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily of cell surface receptors. It is a multiligand receptor, and besides AGE, interacts with other molecules implicated in homeostasis, development, and inflammation, and certain diseases, such as diabetes and Alzheimer's disease. Many alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms, as well as non-protein-coding variants, have been described for this gene (PMID:18089847). [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]	AGER (Advanced Glycosylation End Product-Specific Receptor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AGER include diabetic angiopathy and noma. Among its related pathways are amb2 Integrin signaling and Cytosolic sensors of pathogen-associated DNA. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor activity and S100 protein binding.	Mediates interactions of advanced glycosylation end products (AGE). These are nonenzymatically glycosylated proteins which accumulate in vascular tissue in aging and at an accelerated rate in diabetes. Acts as a mediator of both acute and chronic vascular inflammation in conditions such as atherosclerosis and in particular as a complication of diabetes. AGE/RAGE signaling plays an important role in regulating the production/expression of TNF-alpha, oxidative stress, and endothelial dysfunction in type 2 diabetes. Interaction with S100A12 on endothelium, mononuclear phagocytes, and lymphocytes triggers cellular activation, with generation of key proinflammatory mediators. Interaction with S100B after myocardial infarction may play a role in myocyte apoptosis by activating ERK1/2 and p53/TP53 signaling (By similarity). Receptor for amyloid beta peptide. Contributes to the translocation of amyloid-beta peptide (ABPP) across the cell membrane from the extracellular to the intracellular space in cortical neurons. ABPP-initiated RAGE signaling, especially stimulation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), has the capacity to drive a transport system delivering ABPP as a complex with RAGE to the intraneuronal space. Can also bind oligonucleotides.	same
AGBL3	empty	AGBL3 (ATP/GTP Binding Protein-Like 3) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include metallocarboxypeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AGBL2.	Metallocarboxypeptidase that mediates both deglutamylation and deaspartylation of target proteins. Catalyzes the deglutamylation of polyglutamate side chains generated by post-translational polyglutamylation in proteins such as tubulins. Also removes gene-encoded polyglutamates or polyaspartates from the carboxy-terminus of target proteins such as MYLK. Does not show detyrosinase or deglycylase activities from the carboxy-terminus of tubulin.	same
AGPAT1	This gene encodes an enzyme that converts lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) into phosphatidic acid (PA). LPA and PA are two phospholipids involved in signal transduction and in lipid biosynthesis in cells. This enzyme localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum. This gene is located in the class III region of the human major histocompatibility complex. Alternative splicing results in two transcript variants encoding the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AGPAT1 (1-Acylglycerol-3-Phosphate O-Acyltransferase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AGPAT2.	Converts lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) into phosphatidic acid by incorporating an acyl moiety at the sn-2 position of the glycerol backbone.	same
AGL	This gene encodes the glycogen debrancher enzyme which is involved in glycogen degradation. This enzyme has two independent catalytic activities which occur at different sites on the protein: a 4-alpha-glucotransferase activity and a amylo-1,6-glucosidase activity. Mutations in this gene are associated with glycogen storage disease although a wide range of enzymatic and clinical variability occurs which may be due to tissue-specific alternative splicing. Alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AGL (Amylo-Alpha-1, 6-Glucosidase, 4-Alpha-Glucanotransferase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AGL include glycogen storage disease iiia and finger agnosia. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include polyubiquitin binding and glycogen debranching enzyme activity.	Multifunctional enzyme acting as 1,4-alpha-D-glucan:1,4-alpha-D-glucan 4-alpha-D-glycosyltransferase and amylo-1,6-glucosidase in glycogen degradation	same
AGPAT2	This gene encodes a member of the 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase family. The protein is located within the endoplasmic reticulum membrane and converts lysophosphatidic acid to phosphatidic acid, the second step in de novo phospholipid biosynthesis. Mutations in this gene have been associated with congenital generalized lipodystrophy (CGL), or Berardinelli-Seip syndrome, a disease characterized by a near absence of adipose tissue and severe insulin resistance. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AGPAT2 (1-Acylglycerol-3-Phosphate O-Acyltransferase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AGPAT2 include lipodystrophy, congenital generalized, type 1 and congenital generalized lipodystrophy. Among its related pathways are Integrated Pancreatic Cancer Pathway and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AGPAT1.	Converts lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) into phosphatidic acid by incorporating an acyl moiety at the sn-2 position of the glycerol backbone.	same
AGBL5	empty	AGBL5 (ATP/GTP Binding Protein-Like 5) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include tubulin binding and metallocarboxypeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AGBL2.	Metallocarboxypeptidase that mediates tubulin deglutamylation. Specifically catalyzes the deglutamylation of the branching point glutamate side chains generated by post-translational glutamylation in proteins such as tubulins. In contrast, it is not able to act as a long-chain deglutamylase that shortens long polyglutamate chains, a process catalyzed by AGTPBP1/CCP1, AGBL2/CCP2, AGBL3/CCP3, AGBL1/CCP4 and AGBL4/CCP6.	same
AGK	The protein encoded by this gene is a mitochondrial membrane protein involved in lipid and glycerolipid metabolism. The encoded protein is a lipid kinase that catalyzes the formation of phosphatidic and lysophosphatidic acids. Defects in this gene have been associated with mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome 10. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]	AGK (Acylglycerol Kinase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AGK include sengers syndrome and cataract 38, autosomal recessive. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Glycerolipid metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include NAD+ kinase activity and ceramide kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is SPHK2.	Lipid kinase that can phosphorylate both monoacylglycerol and diacylglycerol to form lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) and phosphatidic acid (PA), respectively. Does not phosphorylate sphingosine. Overexpression increases the formation and secretion of LPA, resulting in transactivation of EGFR and activation of the downstream MAPK signaling pathway, leading to increased cell growth.	same
AGMAT	empty	AGMAT (Agmatine Ureohydrolase (Agmatinase)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Arginine and proline metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include agmatinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARG1.	empty	same
AFF1	empty	AFF1 (AF4/FMR2 Family, Member 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AFF1 include precursor b-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia and chronic neutrophilic leukemia. Among its related pathways are Transcriptional misregulation in cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is AFF2.	empty	same
AFG3L2	This gene encodes a protein localized in mitochondria and closely related to paraplegin. The paraplegin gene is responsible for an autosomal recessive form of hereditary spastic paraplegia. This gene is a candidate gene for other hereditary spastic paraplegias or neurodegenerative disorders. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AFG3L2 (AFG3-Like AAA ATPase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AFG3L2 include spinocerebellar ataxia 28 and ataxia, spastic, 5, autosomal recessive. GO annotations related to this gene include metalloendopeptidase activity and nucleoside-triphosphatase activity.	ATP-dependent protease which is essential for axonal development.	same
AGPAT5	This gene encodes a member of the 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase family. This integral membrane protein converts lysophosphatidic acid to phosphatidic acid, the second step in de novo phospholipid biosynthesis. A pseudogene of this gene is present on the Y chromosome. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2014]	AGPAT5 (1-Acylglycerol-3-Phosphate O-Acyltransferase 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AGPAT3.	Converts lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) into phosphatidic acid by incorporating an acyl moiety at the sn-2 position of the glycerol backbone. Acts on LPA containing saturated or unsaturated fatty acids C15:0-C20:4 at the sn-1 position using C18:1-CoA as the acyl donor. Also acts on lysophosphatidylethanolamine using oleoyl-CoA, but not arachidonoyl-CoA, and lysophosphatidylinositol using arachidonoyl-CoA, but not oleoyl-CoA. Activity toward lysophosphatidylglycerol not detectable.	same
AGPAT3	The protein encoded by this gene is an acyltransferase that converts lysophosphatidic acid into phosphatidic acid, which is the second step in the de novo phospholipid biosynthetic pathway. The encoded protein may be an integral membrane protein. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AGPAT3 (1-Acylglycerol-3-Phosphate O-Acyltransferase 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is LCLAT1.	Converts lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) into phosphatidic acid by incorporating an acyl moiety at the sn-2 position of the glycerol backbone. Acts on LPA containing saturated or unsaturated fatty acids C16:0-C20:4 at the sn-1 position using C18:1, C20:4 or C18:2-CoA as the acyl donor. Also acts on lysophosphatidylcholine, lysophosphatidylinositol and lysophosphatidylserine using C18:1 or C20:4-CoA (PubMed:21173190). Has a preference for arachidonoyl-CoA as a donor. Has also a modest lysophosphatidylinositol acyltransferase (LPIAT) activity, converts lysophosphatidylinositol (LPI) into phosphatidylinositol (By similarity).	same
AGPAT9	This gene encodes a member of the lysophosphatidic acid acyltransferase protein family. The encoded protein is an enzyme which catalyzes the conversion of glycerol-3-phosphate to lysophosphatidic acid in the synthesis of triacylglycerol. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]	AGPAT9 (1-Acylglycerol-3-Phosphate O-Acyltransferase 9) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AGPAT9 include lung cancer. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase activity and glycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AGPAT6.	May transfer the acyl-group from acyl-coA to the sn-1 position of glycerol-3-phosphate, an essential step in glycerolipid biosynthesis. Also transfers the acyl-group from acyl-coA to the sn-2 position of 1-acyl-sn-glycerol-3-phosphate (lysophosphatidic acid, or LPA), forming 1,2-diacyl-sn-glycerol-3-phosphate (phosphatidic acid, or PA).	same
AGPAT4	This gene encodes a member of the 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase family. This integral membrane protein converts lysophosphatidic acid to phosphatidic acid, the second step in de novo phospholipid biosynthesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AGPAT4 (1-Acylglycerol-3-Phosphate O-Acyltransferase 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AGPAT3.	Converts lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) into phosphatidic acid by incorporating an acyl moiety at the sn-2 position of the glycerol backbone.	same
AGRN	This gene encodes one of several proteins that are critical in the development of the neuromuscular junction (NMJ), as identified in mouse knock-out studies. The encoded protein contains several laminin G, Kazal type serine protease inhibitor, and epidermal growth factor domains. Additional post-translational modifications occur to add glycosaminoglycans and disulfide bonds. In one family with congenital myasthenic syndrome affecting limb-girdle muscles, a mutation in this gene was found. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2015]	AGRN (Agrin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AGRN include myasthenic syndrome, congenital, with pre- and postsynaptic defects and agrn-related congenital myasthenic syndrome. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and laminin binding. An important paralog of this gene is EGFLAM.	Isoform 1: heparan sulfate basal lamina glycoprotein that plays a central role in the formation and the maintenance of the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) and directs key events in postsynaptic differentiation. Component of the AGRN-LRP4 receptor complex that induces the phosphorylation and activation of MUSK. The activation of MUSK in myotubes induces the formation of NMJ by regulating different processes including the transcription of specific genes and the clustering of AChR in the postsynaptic membrane. Calcium ions are required for maximal AChR clustering. AGRN function in neurons is highly regulated by alternative splicing, glycan binding and proteolytic processing. Modulates calcium ion homeostasis in neurons, specifically by inducing an increase in cytoplasmic calcium ions. Functions differentially in the central nervous system (CNS) by inhibiting the alpha(3)-subtype of Na+/K+-ATPase and evoking depolarization at CNS synapses. This secreted isoform forms a bridge, after release from motor neurons, to basal lamina through binding laminin via the NtA domain	same
AGTR2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the G-protein coupled receptor 1 family, and functions as a receptor for angiotensin II. It is an intergral membrane protein that is highly expressed in fetus, but scantily in adult tissues, except brain, adrenal medulla, and atretic ovary. This receptor has been shown to mediate programmed cell death and this apoptotic function may play an important role in developmental biology and pathophysiology. Mutations in this gene are been associated with X-linked mental retardation. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]	AGTR2 (Angiotensin II Receptor, Type 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AGTR2 include hypertrophic scars and posterior urethral valves. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and p70S6K Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include transcription factor binding and receptor antagonist activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACKR3.	Receptor for angiotensin II. Cooperates with MTUS1 to inhibit ERK2 activation and cell proliferation.	same
AGPS	This gene is a member of the FAD-binding oxidoreductase/transferase type 4 family. It encodes a protein that catalyzes the second step of ether lipid biosynthesis in which acyl-dihydroxyacetonephosphate (DHAP) is converted to alkyl-DHAP by the addition of a long chain alcohol and the removal of a long-chain acid anion. The protein is localized to the inner aspect of the peroxisomal membrane and requires FAD as a cofactor. Mutations in this gene have been associated with rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata, type 3 and Zellweger syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AGPS (Alkylglycerone Phosphate Synthase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AGPS include rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata, type 3 and rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include FAD binding and alkylglycerone-phosphate synthase activity. An important paralog of this gene is LDHD.	Catalyzes the exchange of an acyl for a long-chain alkyl group and the formation of the ether bond in the biosynthesis of ether phospholipids.	same
AGPAT6	Lysophosphatidic acid acyltransferases (EC 2.3.1.51) catalyze the conversion of lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) to phosphatidic acid (PA). LPA and PA are involved in signal transduction and lipid biosynthesis.[supplied by OMIM, Apr 2004]	AGPAT6 (1-Acylglycerol-3-Phosphate O-Acyltransferase 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase activity and glycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AGPAT9.	Esterifies acyl-group from acyl-ACP to the sn-1 position of glycerol-3-phosphate, an essential step in glycerolipid biosynthesis. Active against both saturated and unsaturated long-chain fatty acyl-CoAs.	same
AGTR1	Angiotensin II is a potent vasopressor hormone and a primary regulator of aldosterone secretion. It is an important effector controlling blood pressure and volume in the cardiovascular system. It acts through at least two types of receptors. This gene encodes the type 1 receptor which is thought to mediate the major cardiovascular effects of angiotensin II. This gene may play a role in the generation of reperfusion arrhythmias following restoration of blood flow to ischemic or infarcted myocardium. It was previously thought that a related gene, denoted as AGTR1B, existed; however, it is now believed that there is only one type 1 receptor gene in humans. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been reported for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]	AGTR1 (Angiotensin II Receptor, Type 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AGTR1 include hypertension, essential and cardiovascular disease risk factor. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and p70S6K Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include protein heterodimerization activity and acetyltransferase activator activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACKR3.	Receptor for angiotensin II. Mediates its action by association with G proteins that activate a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system	same
AGT	The protein encoded by this gene, pre-angiotensinogen or angiotensinogen precursor, is expressed in the liver and is cleaved by the enzyme renin in response to lowered blood pressure. The resulting product, angiotensin I, is then cleaved by angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) to generate the physiologically active enzyme angiotensin II. The protein is involved in maintaining blood pressure and in the pathogenesis of essential hypertension and preeclampsia. Mutations in this gene are associated with susceptibility to essential hypertension, and can cause renal tubular dysgenesis, a severe disorder of renal tubular development. Defects in this gene have also been associated with non-familial structural atrial fibrillation, and inflammatory bowel disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AGT (Angiotensinogen (Serpin Peptidase Inhibitor, Clade A, Member 8)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AGT include renal tubular dysgenesis and renal tubular dysgenesis, agt-related. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and p70S6K Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include growth factor activity and hormone activity.	Essential component of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS), a potent regulator of blood pressure, body fluid and electrolyte homeostasis	same
AGPHD1	empty	HYKK (Hydroxylysine Kinase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with HYKK include lung cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include hydroxylysine kinase activity.	Catalyzes the GTP-dependent phosphorylation of 5-hydroxy-L-lysine.	diff
AGXT2L2	This is a nuclear gene encoding a mitochondrial enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of 5-phosphonooxy-L-lysine to ammonia, inorganic phosphate, and 2-aminoadipate semialdehyde. Mutations in this gene may cause phosphohydroxylysinuria. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2013]	PHYKPL (5-Phosphohydroxy-L-Lysine Phospho-Lyase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with PHYKPL include phosphohydroxylysinuria. GO annotations related to this gene include pyridoxal phosphate binding and transaminase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AGXT2.	Catalyzes the pyridoxal-phosphate-dependent breakdown of 5-phosphohydroxy-L-lysine, converting it to ammonia, inorganic phosphate and 2-aminoadipate semialdehyde.	diff
AGXT2L1	empty	ETNPPL (Ethanolamine-Phosphate Phospho-Lyase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ETNPPL include alcohol dependence. GO annotations related to this gene include pyridoxal phosphate binding and ethanolamine-phosphate phospho-lyase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AGXT2.	Catalyzes the pyridoxal-phosphate-dependent breakdown of phosphoethanolamine, converting it to ammonia, inorganic phosphate and acetaldehyde.	diff
AHCTF1	empty	AHCTF1 (AT Hook Containing Transcription Factor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity.	Required for the assembly of a functional nuclear pore complex (NPC) on the surface of chromosomes as nuclei form at the end of mitosis. May initiate NPC assembly by binding to chromatin and recruiting the Nup107-160 subcomplex of the NPC. Also required for the localization of the Nup107-160 subcomplex of the NPC to the kinetochore during mitosis and for the completion of cytokinesis.	same
AGXT2	The protein encoded by this gene is a class III pyridoxal-phosphate-dependent mitochondrial aminotransferase. It catalyzes the conversion of glyoxylate to glycine using L-alanine as the amino donor. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]	AGXT2 (Alanine--Glyoxylate Aminotransferase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AGXT2 include primary hyperoxaluria. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include pyridoxal phosphate binding and beta-alanine-pyruvate transaminase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ETNPPL.	Can metabolize asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA) via transamination to alpha-keto-delta-(NN-dimethylguanidino) valeric acid (DMGV). ADMA is a potent inhibitor of nitric-oxide (NO) synthase, and this activity provides mechanism through which the kidney regulates blood pressure.	same
AHDC1	This gene encodes a protein containing two AT-hooks, which likely function in DNA binding. Mutations in this gene were found in individuals with Xia-Gibbs syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2014]	AHDC1 (AT Hook, DNA Binding Motif, Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AHDC1 include xia-gibbs syndrome.	empty	same
AHI1	This gene is apparently required for both cerebellar and cortical development in humans. This gene mutations cause specific forms of Joubert syndrome-related disorders. Joubert syndrome (JS) is a recessively inherited developmental brain disorder with several identified causative chromosomal loci. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]	AHI1 (Abelson Helper Integration Site 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AHI1 include joubert syndrome-3 and ahi1-related joubert syndrome. An important paralog of this gene is WDR44.	Component of the tectonic-like complex, a complex localized at the transition zone of primary cilia and acting as a barrier that prevents diffusion of transmembrane proteins between the cilia and plasma membranes.	same
AGFG1	The protein encoded by this gene is related to nucleoporins, a class of proteins that mediate nucleocytoplasmic transport. The encoded protein binds the activation domain of the human immunodeficiency virus Rev protein when Rev is assembled onto its RNA target, and is required for the nuclear export of Rev-directed RNAs. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008]	AGFG1 (ArfGAP With FG Repeats 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AGFG1 include griscelli syndrome, type 2 and griscelli syndrome. Among its related pathways are Influenza A. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is AGFG2.	Required for vesicle docking or fusion during acrosome biogenesis (By similarity). May play a role in RNA trafficking or localization. In case of infection by HIV-1, acts as a cofactor for viral Rev and promotes movement of Rev-responsive element-containing RNAs from the nuclear periphery to the cytoplasm. This step is essential for HIV-1 replication.	same
AHCY	S-adenosylhomocysteine hydrolase belongs to the adenosylhomocysteinase family. It catalyzes the reversible hydrolysis of S-adenosylhomocysteine (AdoHcy) to adenosine (Ado) and L-homocysteine (Hcy). Thus, it regulates the intracellular S-adenosylhomocysteine (SAH) concentration thought to be important for transmethylation reactions. Deficiency in this protein is one of the different causes of hypermethioninemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]	AHCY (Adenosylhomocysteinase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AHCY include hypermethioninemia with deficiency of s-adenosylhomocysteine hydrolase and psychomotor retardation due to s-adenosylhomocysteine hydrolase deficiency. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include adenosylhomocysteinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AHCYL2.	Adenosylhomocysteine is a competitive inhibitor of S-adenosyl-L-methionine-dependent methyl transferase reactions; therefore adenosylhomocysteinase may play a key role in the control of methylations via regulation of the intracellular concentration of adenosylhomocysteine.	same
AGXT	This gene is expressed only in the liver and the encoded protein is localized mostly in the peroxisomes, where it is involved in glyoxylate detoxification. Mutations in this gene, some of which alter subcellular targetting, have been associated with type I primary hyperoxaluria. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AGXT (Alanine-Glyoxylate Aminotransferase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AGXT include hyperoxaluria, primary, type 1 and primary hyperoxaluria. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and p70S6K Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and pyridoxal phosphate binding.	empty	same
AGGF1	This gene encodes an angiogenic factor that promotes proliferation of endothelial cells. Mutations in this gene are associated with a susceptibility to Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome. Pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosomes 3, 4, 10 and 16.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]	AGGF1 (Angiogenic Factor With G Patch And FHA Domains 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AGGF1 include klippel-trenaunay-weber syndrome and coats disease. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleic acid binding.	Promotes angiogenesis and the proliferation of endothelial cells. Able to bind to endothelial cells and promote cell proliferation, suggesting that it may act in an autocrine fashion.	same
AGRP	This gene encodes an antagonist of the melanocortin-3 and melanocortin-4 receptor. It appears to regulate hypothalamic control of feeding behavior via melanocortin receptor and/or intracellular calcium regulation, and thus plays a role in weight homeostasis. Mutations in this gene have been associated with late on-set obesity. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]	AGRP (Agouti Related Neuropeptide) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AGRP include overnutrition and obesity. Among its related pathways are Adipocytokine signaling pathway and Syndecan-3-mediated signaling events. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and neuropeptide hormone activity.	Plays a role in weight homeostasis. Involved in the control of feeding behavior through the central melanocortin system. Acts as alpha melanocyte-stimulating hormone antagonist by inhibiting cAMP production mediated by stimulation of melanocortin receptors within the hypothalamus and adrenal gland. Has very low activity with MC5R (By similarity). Is an inverse agonist for MC3R and MC4R being able to suppress their constitutive activity. It promotes MC3R and MC4R endocytosis in an arrestin-dependent manner.	same
AGTRAP	This gene encodes a transmembrane protein localized to the plasma membrane and perinuclear vesicular structures. The gene product interacts with the angiotensin II type I receptor and negatively regulates angiotensin II signaling. Alternative splicing of this gene generates multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AGTRAP (Angiotensin II Receptor-Associated Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include angiotensin type II receptor activity.	Appears to be a negative regulator of type-1 angiotensin II receptor-mediated signaling by regulating receptor internalisation as well as mechanism of receptor desensitization such as phosphorylation. Induces also a decrease in cell proliferation and angiotensin II-stimulated transcriptional activity.	same
AGTPBP1	NNA1 is a zinc carboxypeptidase that contains nuclear localization signals and an ATP/GTP-binding motif that was initially cloned from regenerating spinal cord neurons of the mouse.[supplied by OMIM, Jul 2002]	AGTPBP1 (ATP/GTP Binding Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Neuroscience. GO annotations related to this gene include tubulin binding and metallocarboxypeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AGBL2.	Metallocarboxypeptidase that mediates deglutamylation of target proteins. Catalyzes the deglutamylation of polyglutamate side chains generated by post-translational polyglutamylation in proteins such as tubulins. Also removes gene-encoded polyglutamates from the carboxy-terminus of target proteins such as MYLK. Acts as a long-chain deglutamylase and specifically shortens long polyglutamate chains, while it is not able to remove the branching point glutamate, a process catalyzed by AGBL5/CCP5.	same
AGR3	empty	AGR3 (Anterior Gradient 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AGR3 include breast cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include dystroglycan binding. An important paralog of this gene is TXNDC12.	empty	same
AHNAK2	empty	AHNAK2 (AHNAK Nucleoprotein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AHNAK2 include skeletal muscle regeneration. An important paralog of this gene is AHNAK.	empty	same
AHSA2	empty	AHSA2 (AHA1, Activator Of Heat Shock 90kDa Protein ATPase Homolog 2 (Yeast)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include chaperone binding and ATPase activator activity. An important paralog of this gene is AHSA1.	Co-chaperone that stimulates HSP90 ATPase activity.	same
AHNAK	empty	AHNAK (AHNAK Nucleoprotein) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is AHNAK2.	May be required for neuronal cell differentiation	same
AGR2	empty	AGR2 (Anterior Gradient 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Tyrosine Kinases / Adaptors and Adhesion. GO annotations related to this gene include dystroglycan binding. An important paralog of this gene is TXNDC12.	Required for MUC2 post-transcriptional synthesis and secretion. May play a role in the production of mucus by intestinal cells (By similarity). Proto-oncogene that may play a role in cell migration, cell differentiation and cell growth.	same
AHSG	Alpha2-HS glycoprotein (AHSG), a glycoprotein present in the serum, is synthesized by hepatocytes. The AHSG molecule consists of two polypeptide chains, which are both cleaved from a proprotein encoded from a single mRNA. It is involved in several functions, such as endocytosis, brain development and the formation of bone tissue. The protein is commonly present in the cortical plate of the immature cerebral cortex and bone marrow hemopoietic matrix, and it has therefore been postulated that it participates in the development of the tissues. However, its exact significance is still obscure. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AHSG (Alpha-2-HS-Glycoprotein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AHSG include uremia and liver cirrhosis. Among its related pathways are Glucose / Energy Metabolism and Signaling by BMP. GO annotations related to this gene include cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity and kinase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is FETUB.	Promotes endocytosis, possesses opsonic properties and influences the mineral phase of bone. Shows affinity for calcium and barium ions	same
AHCYL2	The protein encoded by this gene acts as a homotetramer and may be involved in the conversion of S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine to L-homocysteine and adenosine. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]	AHCYL2 (Adenosylhomocysteinase-Like 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and One carbon pool by folate. GO annotations related to this gene include adenosylhomocysteinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AHCYL1.	empty	same
AHR	This gene encodes a ligand-activated transcription factor involved in the regulation of biological responses to planar aromatic hydrocarbons. This receptor has been shown to regulate xenobiotic-metabolizing enzymes such as cytochrome P450. Its ligands included a variety of aromatic hydrocarbons. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AHR (Aryl Hydrocarbon Receptor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AHR include eosinophilic fasciitis and toxic oil syndrome. Among its related pathways are AhR pathway (WikiPathways) and AHR Pathway (Qiagen). GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and protein heterodimerization activity. An important paralog of this gene is AHRR.	Ligand-activated transcriptional activator. Binds to the XRE promoter region of genes it activates. Activates the expression of multiple phase I and II xenobiotic chemical metabolizing enzyme genes (such as the CYP1A1 gene). Mediates biochemical and toxic effects of halogenated aromatic hydrocarbons. Involved in cell-cycle regulation. Likely to play an important role in the development and maturation of many tissues. Regulates the circadian clock by inhibiting the basal and circadian expression of the core circadian component PER1. Inhibits PER1 by repressing the CLOCK-ARNTL/BMAL1 heterodimer mediated transcriptional activation of PER1.	same
AHRR	The protein encoded by this gene participates in the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) signaling cascade, which mediates dioxin toxicity, and is involved in regulation of cell growth and differentiation. It functions as a feedback modulator by repressing AhR-dependent gene expression. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]	AHRR (Aryl-Hydrocarbon Receptor Repressor) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are AhR pathway (WikiPathways) and AHR Pathway (Qiagen). GO annotations related to this gene include signal transducer activity and protein dimerization activity. An important paralog of this gene is HIF3A.	Mediates dioxin toxicity and is involved in regulation of cell growth and differentiation. Represses the transcription activity of AHR by competing with this transcription factor for heterodimer formation with the ARNT and subsequently binding to the xenobiotic response element (XRE) sequence present in the promoter regulatory region of variety of genes. Represses CYP1A1 by binding the XRE sequence and recruiting ANKRA2, HDAC4 and/or HDAC5. Autoregulates its expression by associating with its own XRE site.	same
AIDA	empty	AIDA (Axin Interactor, Dorsalization Associated) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein domain specific binding.	Acts as a ventralizing factor during embryogenesis. Inhibits axin-mediated JNK activation by binding axin and disrupting axin homodimerization. This in turn antagonizes a Wnt/beta-catenin-independent dorsalization pathway activated by AXIN/JNK-signaling (By similarity).	same
AIF1L	empty	AIF1L (Allograft Inflammatory Factor 1-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and actin filament binding. An important paralog of this gene is AIF1.	Actin-binding protein that promotes actin bundling. May neither bind calcium nor depend on calcium for function.	same
AIF1	This gene is induced by cytokines and interferon. Its protein product is thought to be involved in negative regulation of growth of vascular smooth muscle cells, which contributes to the anti-inflammatory response to vessel wall trauma. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008]	AIF1 (Allograft Inflammatory Factor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AIF1 include chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy and demyelinating polyneuropathy. Among its related pathways are Spinal Cord Injury. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and actin filament binding. An important paralog of this gene is AIF1L.	Actin-binding protein that enhances membrane ruffling and RAC activation. Enhances the actin-bundling activity of LCP1. Binds calcium. Plays a role in RAC signaling and in phagocytosis. May play a role in macrophage activation and function. Promotes the proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells and of T-lymphocytes. Enhances lymphocyte migration. Plays a role in vascular inflammation.	same
AIFM3	empty	AIFM3 (Apoptosis-Inducing Factor, Mitochondrion-Associated, 3) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include oxidoreductase activity and 2 iron, 2 sulfur cluster binding. An important paralog of this gene is AIFM1.	Induces apoptosis through a caspase dependent pathway. Reduces mitochondrial membrane potential.	same
AHSP	empty	AHSP (Alpha Hemoglobin Stabilizing Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AHSP include obstructive lung disease and myocardial stunning. GO annotations related to this gene include unfolded protein binding and hemoglobin binding.	Acts as a chaperone to prevent the harmful aggregation of alpha-hemoglobin during normal erythroid cell development. Specifically protects free alpha-hemoglobin from precipitation. It is predicted to modulate pathological states of alpha-hemoglobin excess such as beta-thalassemia.	same
AIM2	AIM2 is a member of the IFI20X /IFI16 family. It plays a putative role in tumorigenic reversion and may control cell proliferation. Interferon-gamma induces expression of AIM2. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AIM2 (Absent In Melanoma 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AIM2 include skin conditions and melanoma. Among its related pathways are Nucleotide-binding domain, leucine rich repeat containing receptor (NLR) signaling pathways and Cytosolic sensors of pathogen-associated DNA. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and double-stranded DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is IFI16.	Involved in innate immune response by recognizing cytosolic double-stranded DNA and inducing caspase-1-activating inflammasome formation in macrophages. Upon binding to DNA is thought to undergo oligomerization and to associate with PYCARD initiating the recruitment of caspase-1 precusrsor and processing of interleukin-1 beta and interleukin-18. Detects cytosolic dsDNA of viral and bacterial origin in a non-sequence-specific manner. Can also trigger PYCARD-dependent, caspase-1-independent cell death that involves caspase-8 (By similarity). Tumor suppressor which may act by repressing NF-kappa-B transcriptional activity.	same
AIG1	empty	AIG1 (Androgen-Induced 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AIG1 include amebiasis. An important paralog of this gene is ADTRP.	May play a role in androgen-regulated growth of hair follicles	same
AJAP1	empty	AJAP1 (Adherens Junctions Associated Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	Plays a role in cell adhesion and cell migration.	same
AHSA1	empty	AHSA1 (AHA1, Activator Of Heat Shock 90kDa Protein ATPase Homolog 1 (Yeast)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AHSA1 include cannabis abuse. Among its related pathways are Mechanisms of CFTR activation by S-nitrosoglutathione (normal and CF) and Mechanisms of CFTR activation by S-nitrosoglutathione (normal and CF). GO annotations related to this gene include chaperone binding and ATPase activator activity. An important paralog of this gene is AHSA2.	Cochaperone that stimulates HSP90 ATPase activity (By similarity). May affect a step in the endoplasmic reticulum to Golgi trafficking.	same
AIFM1	This gene encodes a flavoprotein essential for nuclear disassembly in apoptotic cells, and it is found in the mitochondrial intermembrane space in healthy cells. Induction of apoptosis results in the translocation of this protein to the nucleus where it affects chromosome condensation and fragmentation. In addition, this gene product induces mitochondria to release the apoptogenic proteins cytochrome c and caspase-9. Mutations in this gene cause combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency 6, which results in a severe mitochondrial encephalomyopathy. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A related pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 10. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	AIFM1 (Apoptosis-Inducing Factor, Mitochondrion-Associated, 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AIFM1 include cowchock syndrome and combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency 6. Among its related pathways are Apoptotic Pathways in Synovial Fibroblasts and Apoptotic Pathways in Synovial Fibroblasts. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and oxidoreductase activity, acting on NAD(P)H. An important paralog of this gene is AIFM3.	Functions both as NADH oxidoreductase and as regulator of apoptosis. In response to apoptotic stimuli, it is released from the mitochondrion intermembrane space into the cytosol and to the nucleus, where it functions as a proapoptotic factor in a caspase-independent pathway. In contrast, functions as an antiapoptotic factor in normal mitochondria via its NADH oxidoreductase activity. The soluble form (AIFsol) found in the nucleus induces parthanatos i.e. caspase-independent fragmentation of chromosomal DNA. Interacts with EIF3G,and thereby inhibits the EIF3 machinery and protein synthesis, and activates casapse-7 to amplify apoptosis. Plays a critical role in caspase-independent, pyknotic cell death in hydrogen peroxide-exposed cells. Binds to DNA in a sequence-independent manner.	same
AICDA	This gene encodes a RNA-editing deaminase that is a member of the cytidine deaminase family. The protein is involved in somatic hypermutation, gene conversion, and class-switch recombination of immunoglobulin genes. Defects in this gene are the cause of autosomal recessive hyper-IgM immunodeficiency syndrome type 2 (HIGM2). [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]	AICDA (Activation-Induced Cytidine Deaminase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AICDA include immunodeficiency with hyper-igm, type 2 and splenic marginal zone lymphoma. Among its related pathways are IL4-mediated signaling events and Allograft rejection. GO annotations related to this gene include cytidine deaminase activity. An important paralog of this gene is APOBEC3C.	Single-stranded DNA-specific cytidine deaminase. Involved in somatic hypermutation, gene conversion, and class-switch recombination in B-lymphocytes. Required for several crucial steps of B-cell terminal differentiation necessary for efficient antibody responses. May also play a role in the epigenetic regulation of gene expression by participating in DNA demethylation.	same
AHCYL1	The protein encoded by this gene interacts with inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor, type 1 and may be involved in the conversion of S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine to L-homocysteine and adenosine. Several transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]	AHCYL1 (Adenosylhomocysteinase-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and One carbon pool by folate. GO annotations related to this gene include adenosylhomocysteinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AHCYL2.	Acts as a (dATP)-dependent inhibitor of ribonucleotide reductase large subunit RRM1, controlling the endogenous dNTP pool and ensuring normal cell cycle progression.	same
AIMP2	The JTV1 gene is located on chromosome 7p22 flanked by two genes, HRI and PMS2. JTV1 and HRI overlap slightly and are arranged in a tail-to-tail fashion. JTV1 and PMS2 are separated by approximately 200 base pairs and are arranged head-to-head. JTV1 is transcribed in the opposite direction compared to HRI and PMS2. The function of the JTV1 gene product is unknown. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AIMP2 (Aminoacyl TRNA Synthetase Complex-Interacting Multifunctional Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AIMP2 include lung cancer. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and Osteoclast Signaling.	Required for assembly and stability of the aminoacyl-tRNA synthase complex. Mediates ubiquitination and degradation of FUBP1, a transcriptional activator of MYC, leading to MYC down-regulation which is required for aveolar type II cell differentiation. Blocks MDM2-mediated ubiquitination and degradation of p53/TP53. Functions as a proapoptotic factor.	same
AK3L1	empty	empty	empty	same
AIP	The protein encoded by this gene is a receptor for aryl hydrocarbons and a ligand-activated transcription factor. The encoded protein is found in the cytoplasm as part of a multiprotein complex, but upon binding of ligand is transported to the nucleus. This protein can regulate the expression of many xenobiotic metabolizing enzymes. Also, the encoded protein can bind specifically to and inhibit the activity of hepatitis B virus. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2014]	AIP (Aryl Hydrocarbon Receptor Interacting Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AIP include pituitary adenoma, prolactin-secreting and pituitary adenoma, acth-secreting. Among its related pathways are AhR pathway (WikiPathways) and AHR Pathway (Qiagen). GO annotations related to this gene include transcription factor binding and transcription coactivator activity. An important paralog of this gene is AIPL1.	May play a positive role in AHR-mediated (aromatic hydrocarbon receptor) signaling, possibly by influencing its receptivity for ligand and/or its nuclear targeting	same
AK2	Adenylate kinases are involved in regulating the adenine nucleotide composition within a cell by catalyzing the reversible transfer of phosphate groups among adenine nucleotides. Three isozymes of adenylate kinase, namely 1, 2, and 3, have been identified in vertebrates; this gene encodes isozyme 2. Expression of these isozymes is tissue-specific and developmentally regulated. Isozyme 2 is localized in the mitochondrial intermembrane space and may play a role in apoptosis. Mutations in this gene are the cause of reticular dysgenesis. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosomes 1 and 2.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]	AK2 (Adenylate Kinase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AK2 include reticular dysgenesis. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include adenylate kinase activity.	Catalyzes the reversible transfer of the terminal phosphate group between ATP and AMP. Plays an important role in cellular energy homeostasis and in adenine nucleotide metabolism. Adenylate kinase activity is critical for regulation of the phosphate utilization and the AMP de novo biosynthesis pathways. Plays a key role in hematopoiesis.	same
AIRE	This gene encodes a transcriptional regulator that forms nuclear bodies and interacts with the transcriptional coactivator CREB binding protein. The encoded protein plays an important role in immunity by regulating the expression of autoantigens and negative selection of autoreactive T-cells in the thymus. Mutations in this gene cause the rare autosomal-recessive systemic autoimmune disease termed autoimmune polyendocrinopathy with candidiasis and ectodermal dystrophy (APECED). [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]	AIRE (Autoimmune Regulator) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AIRE include autoimmune polyendocrinopathy syndrome , type i, with or without reversible metaphyseal dysplasia and autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome type 1. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Primary immunodeficiency. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and transcription regulatory region DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is TRIM28.	Transcriptional regulator that binds to DNA as a dimer or as a tetramer, but not as a monomer. Binds to G-doublets in an A/T-rich environment; the preferred motif is a tandem repeat of 5-. ATTGGTTA-3 combined with a 5-TTATTA-3 box. Binds to nucleosomes (By similarity). Binds to chromatin and interacts selectively with histone H3 that is not methylated at Lys-4, not phosphorylated at Thr-3 and not methylated at Arg-2. Functions as a sensor of histone H3 modifications that are important for the epigenetic regulation of gene expression. Functions as a transcriptional activator and promotes the expression of otherwise tissue-specific self-antigens in the thymus, which is important for self tolerance and the avoidance of autoimmune reactions.	same
AK5	This gene encodes a member of the adenylate kinase family, which is involved in regulating the adenine nucleotide composition within a cell by catalyzing the reversible transfer of phosphate groups among adenine nucleotides. This member is related to the UMP/CMP kinase of several species. It is located in the cytosol and expressed exclusively in brain. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AK5 (Adenylate Kinase 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AK5 include limbic encephalitis. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include cAMP-dependent protein kinase regulator activity and adenylate kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CMPK1.	Nucleoside monophosphate (NMP) kinase that catalyzes the reversible transfer of the terminal phosphate group between nucleoside triphosphates and monophosphates. Active on AMP and dAMP with ATP as a donor. When GTP is used as phosphate donor, the enzyme phosphorylates AMP, CMP, and to a small extent dCMP. Also displays broad nucleoside diphosphate kinase activity.	same
AK7	empty	AK7 (Adenylate Kinase 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AK7 include reticular dysgenesis. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Neuropathic Pain-Signaling in Dorsal Horn Neurons. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleoside diphosphate kinase activity and cytidylate kinase activity.	Nucleoside monophosphate (NMP) kinase that catalyzes the reversible transfer of the terminal phosphate group between nucleoside triphosphates and monophosphates. Has highest activity toward AMP, and weaker activity toward dAMP, CMP and dCMP. Also displays broad nucleoside diphosphate kinase activity. Involved in maintaining ciliary structure and function.	same
AKAP11	The A-kinase anchor proteins (AKAPs) are a group of structurally diverse proteins, which have the common function of binding to the regulatory subunit of protein kinase A (PKA) and confining the holoenzyme to discrete locations within the cell. This gene encodes a member of the AKAP family. The encoded protein is expressed at high levels throughout spermatogenesis and in mature sperm. It binds the RI and RII subunits of PKA in testis. It may serve a function in cell cycle control of both somatic cells and germ cells in addition to its putative role in spermatogenesis and sperm function. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AKAP11 (A Kinase (PRKA) Anchor Protein 11) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase A binding and protein phosphatase 1 binding. An important paralog of this gene is SPHKAP.	Binds to type II regulatory subunits of protein kinase A and anchors/targets them	same
AIFM2	This gene encodes a flavoprotein oxidoreductase that binds single stranded DNA and is thought to contribute to apoptosis in the presence of bacterial and viral DNA. The expression of this gene is also found to be induced by tumor suppressor protein p53 in colon cancer cells. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]	AIFM2 (Apoptosis-Inducing Factor, Mitochondrion-Associated, 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Direct p53 effectors. GO annotations related to this gene include flavin adenine dinucleotide binding and electron-transferring-flavoprotein dehydrogenase activity.	Oxidoreductase, which may play a role in mediating a p53/TP53-dependent apoptosis response. Probable oxidoreductase that acts as a caspase-independent mitochondrial effector of apoptotic cell death. Binds to DNA in a sequence-independent manner. May contribute to genotoxin-induced growth arrest.	same
AKAP10	This gene encodes a member of the A-kinase anchor protein family. A-kinase anchor proteins bind to the regulatory subunits of protein kinase A (PKA) and confine the holoenzyme to discrete locations within the cell. The encoded protein is localized to mitochondria and interacts with both the type I and type II regulatory subunits of PKA. Polymorphisms in this gene may be associated with increased risk of arrhythmias and sudden cardiac death. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]	AKAP10 (A Kinase (PRKA) Anchor Protein 10) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AKAP10 include cardiac conduction defect. Among its related pathways are Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA.	Differentially targeted protein that binds to type I and II regulatory subunits of protein kinase A and anchors them to the mitochondria or the plasma membrane. Although the physiological relevance between PKA and AKAPS with mitochondria is not fully understood, one idea is that BAD, a proapoptotic member, is phosphorylated and inactivated by mitochondria-anchored PKA. It cannot be excluded too that it may facilitate PKA as well as G protein signal transduction, by acting as an adapter for assembling multiprotein complexes. With its RGS domain, it could lead to the interaction to G-alpha proteins, providing a link between the signaling machinery and the downstream kinase (By similarity).	same
AIM1	empty	AIM1 (Absent In Melanoma 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AIM1 include albinism, oculocutaneous, type iv and melanoma. An important paralog of this gene is AIM1L.	May function as suppressor of malignant melanoma. It may exert its effects through interactions with the cytoskeleton	same
AIM1L	empty	AIM1L (Absent In Melanoma 1-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is AIM1.	empty	same
AKAP2	The protein encoded by this gene binds to the regulatory subunit of protein kinase A and is found associated with the actin cytoskeleton. The encoded protein mediates signals carried by cAMP and may be involved in creating polarity in certain signaling processes. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]	AKAP2 (A Kinase (PRKA) Anchor Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are G Protein Signaling Pathways and Signal transduction_PKA signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include enzyme binding. An important paralog of this gene is PALMD.	Binds to regulatory subunit (RII) of protein kinase A. May be involved in establishing polarity in signaling systems or in integrating PKA-RII isoforms with downstream effectors to capture, amplify and focus diffuse, trans-cellular signals carried by cAMP (By similarity).	same
AK3	The protein encoded by this gene is a GTP:ATP phosphotransferase that is found in the mitochondrial matrix. Several transcript variants encoding a few different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]	AK3 (Adenylate Kinase 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Hemostasis and Neuropathic Pain-Signaling in Dorsal Horn Neurons. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding and nucleoside triphosphate adenylate kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AK8.	Involved in maintaining the homeostasis of cellular nucleotides by catalyzing the interconversion of nucleoside phosphates. Has GTP:AMP phosphotransferase and ITP:AMP phosphotransferase activities.	same
AKAP1	The A-kinase anchor proteins (AKAPs) are a group of structurally diverse proteins, which have the common function of binding to the regulatory subunit of protein kinase A (PKA) and confining the holoenzyme to discrete locations within the cell. This gene encodes a member of the AKAP family. The encoded protein binds to type I and type II regulatory subunits of PKA and anchors them to the mitochondrion. This protein is speculated to be involved in the cAMP-dependent signal transduction pathway and in directing RNA to a specific cellular compartment. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AKAP1 (A Kinase (PRKA) Anchor Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding.	Binds to type I and II regulatory subunits of protein kinase A and anchors them to the cytoplasmic face of the mitochondrial outer membrane	same
AKAP13	The A-kinase anchor proteins (AKAPs) are a group of structurally diverse proteins which have the common function of binding to the regulatory subunit of protein kinase A (PKA) and confining the holoenzyme to discrete locations within the cell. This gene encodes a member of the AKAP family. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms containing c-terminal dbl oncogene homology (DH) and pleckstrin homology (PH) domains. The DH domain is associated with guanine nucleotide exchange activation for the Rho/Rac family of small GTP binding proteins, resulting in the conversion of the inactive GTPase to the active form capable of transducing signals. The PH domain has multiple functions. Therefore, these isoforms function as scaffolding proteins to coordinate a Rho signaling pathway, function as protein kinase A-anchoring proteins and, in addition, enhance ligand-dependent activity of estrogen receptors alpha and beta. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]	AKAP13 (A Kinase (PRKA) Anchor Protein 13) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AKAP13 include relapsing fever and breast cancer. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and Rho guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARHGEF11.	Anchors cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) and acts as an adapter protein to selectively couple G alpha-13 and Rho. Augments gene activation by the estrogen receptor in an element-specific and ligand-dependent manner. Activates estrogen receptor beta by a p38 MAPK-dependent pathway. Stimulates exchange activity on Rho proteins in vitro, but not on CDC42, Ras or Rac and may bind calcium ions.	same
AIPL1	Leber congenital amaurosis (LCA) is the most severe inherited retinopathy with the earliest age of onset and accounts for at least 5% of all inherited retinal diseases. Affected individuals are diagnosed at birth or in the first few months of life with nystagmus, severely impaired vision or blindness and an abnormal or flat electroretinogram. The photoreceptor/pineal-expressed gene, AIPL1, encoding aryl-hydrocarbon interacting protein-like 1, is located within the LCA4 candidate region. The encoded protein contains three tetratricopeptide motifs, consistent with chaperone or nuclear transport activity. Mutations in this gene may cause approximately 20% of recessive LCA. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2014]	AIPL1 (Aryl Hydrocarbon Receptor Interacting Protein-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AIPL1 include leber congenital amaurosis 4 and aipl1-related leber congenital amaurosis. GO annotations related to this gene include unfolded protein binding and farnesylated protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is AIP.	May be important in protein trafficking and/or protein folding and stabilization	same
AKAP7	This gene encodes a member of the A-kinase anchoring protein (AKAP) family, a group of functionally related proteins that bind to a regulatory subunit (RII) of cAMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA) and target the enzyme to specific subcellular compartments. AKAPs have a common RII-binding domain, but contain different targeting motifs responsible for directing PKA to distinct intracellular locations. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2011]	AKAP7 (A Kinase (PRKA) Anchor Protein 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and protein domain specific binding.	Targets the cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) to the plasma membrane, and permits functional coupling to the L-type calcium channel. The membrane-associated form reduces epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) activity, whereas the free cytoplasmic form may negatively regulate ENaC channel feedback inhibition by intracellular sodium.	same
AKAP8	This gene encodes a member of the A-kinase anchor protein family. A-kinase anchor proteins are scaffold proteins that contain a binding domain for the RI/RII subunit of protein kinase A (PKA) and recruit PKA and other signaling molecules to specific subcellular locations. This gene encodes a nuclear A-kinase anchor protein that binds to the RII alpha subunit of PKA and may play a role in chromosome condensation during mitosis by targeting PKA and the condensin complex to chromatin. A pseudogene of this gene is located on the short arm of chromosome 9. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]	AKAP8 (A Kinase (PRKA) Anchor Protein 8) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include double-stranded DNA binding and protein kinase A regulatory subunit binding. An important paralog of this gene is AKAP8L.	Anchoring protein that mediates the subcellular compartmentation of cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA type II)	same
AKAP6	The A-kinase anchor proteins (AKAPs) are a group of structurally diverse proteins, which have the common function of binding to the regulatory subunit of protein kinase A (PKA) and confining the holoenzyme to discrete locations within the cell. This gene encodes a member of the AKAP family. The encoded protein is highly expressed in various brain regions and cardiac and skeletal muscle. It is specifically localized to the sarcoplasmic reticulum and nuclear membrane, and is involved in anchoring PKA to the nuclear membrane or sarcoplasmic reticulum. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AKAP6 (A Kinase (PRKA) Anchor Protein 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include ion channel binding and protein kinase A binding.	Binds to type II regulatory subunits of protein kinase A and anchors/targets them to the nuclear membrane or sarcoplasmic reticulum. May act as an adapter for assembling multiprotein complexes	same
AKAP8L	empty	AKAP8L (A Kinase (PRKA) Anchor Protein 8-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Epstein-Barr virus infection. GO annotations related to this gene include DEAD/H-box RNA helicase binding. An important paralog of this gene is AKAP8.	Could play a role in constitutive transport element (CTE)-mediated gene expression. Does not seem to be implicated in the binding of regulatory subunit II of PKA. May be involved in nuclear envelope breakdown and chromatin condensation. May regulate the initiation phase of DNA replication when associated with TMPO-beta	same
AKAP9	The A-kinase anchor proteins (AKAPs) are a group of structurally diverse proteins which have the common function of binding to the regulatory subunit of protein kinase A (PKA) and confining the holoenzyme to discrete locations within the cell. This gene encodes a member of the AKAP family. Alternate splicing of this gene results in at least two isoforms that localize to the centrosome and the Golgi apparatus, and interact with numerous signaling proteins from multiple signal transduction pathways. These signaling proteins include type II protein kinase A, serine/threonine kinase protein kinase N, protein phosphatase 1, protein phosphatase 2a, protein kinase C-epsilon and phosphodiesterase 4D3. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]	AKAP9 (A Kinase (PRKA) Anchor Protein 9) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AKAP9 include long qt syndrome-11 and long qt syndrome 1. Among its related pathways are Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and protein complex scaffold. An important paralog of this gene is PCNT.	Binds to type II regulatory subunits of protein kinase A. Scaffolding protein that assembles several protein kinases and phosphatases on the centrosome and Golgi apparatus. May be required to maintain the integrity of the Golgi apparatus. Isoform 4 is associated with the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor and is specifically found in the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) as well as in neuronal synapses, suggesting a role in the organization of postsynaptic specializations.	same
AKNA	empty	AKNA (AT-Hook Transcription Factor) is a Protein Coding gene.	Transcription factor that specifically activates the expression of the CD40 receptor and its ligand CD40L/CD154, two cell surface molecules on lymphocytes that are critical for antigen-dependent-B-cell development. Binds to A/T-rich promoters.	same
AKIRIN2	empty	AKIRIN2 (Akirin 2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is AKIRIN1.	Required for the innate immune response. Downstream effector of the Toll-like receptor (TLR), TNF and IL-1 beta signaling pathways leading to the production of IL-6. Forms a complex with YWHAB that acts to repress transcription of DUSP1 (By similarity).	same
AKAP4	The A-kinase anchor proteins (AKAPs) are a group of structurally diverse proteins, which have the common function of binding to the regulatory subunit of protein kinase A (PKA) and confining the holoenzyme to discrete locations within the cell. This gene encodes a member of the AKAP family. The encoded protein is localized to the sperm flagellum and may be involved in the regulation of sperm motility. Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AKAP4 (A Kinase (PRKA) Anchor Protein 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase A binding. An important paralog of this gene is AKAP3.	Major structural component of sperm fibrous sheath. Plays a role in sperm motility.	same
AKNAD1	This gene encodes a protein which contains a domain found in an AT-hook-containing transcription factor. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]	AKNAD1 (AKNA Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
AKAP5	The A-kinase anchor proteins (AKAPs) are a group of structurally diverse proteins, which have the common function of binding to the regulatory subunit of protein kinase A (PKA) and confining the holoenzyme to discrete locations within the cell. This gene encodes a member of the AKAP family. The encoded protein binds to the RII-beta regulatory subunit of PKA, and also to protein kinase C and the phosphatase calcineurin. It is predominantly expressed in cerebral cortex and may anchor the PKA protein at postsynaptic densities (PSD) and be involved in the regulation of postsynaptic events. It is also expressed in T lymphocytes and may function to inhibit interleukin-2 transcription by disrupting calcineurin-dependent dephosphorylation of NFAT. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AKAP5 (A Kinase (PRKA) Anchor Protein 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AKAP5 include ureterolithiasis and canavan disease. Among its related pathways are GPCR Pathway and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include calmodulin binding and adenylate cyclase binding.	May anchor the PKA protein to cytoskeletal and/or organelle-associated proteins, targeting the signal carried by cAMP to specific intracellular effectors. Association with to the beta2-adrenergic receptor (beta2-AR) not only regulates beta2-AR signaling pathway, but also the activation by PKA by switching off the beta2-AR signaling cascade	same
AKR1B15	empty	AKR1B15 (Aldo-Keto Reductase Family 1, Member B15) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include oxidoreductase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AKR1B1.	Isoform 1: Mainly acts as a reductive enzyme that catalyzes the reduction of androgens and estrogens with high positional selectivity (shows 17-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase activity) as well as 3-keto-acyl-CoAs. Has a strong selectivity towards NADP(H) (PubMed:25577493).	same
AKAP3	This gene encodes a member of A-kinase anchoring proteins (AKAPs), a family of functionally related proteins that target protein kinase A to discrete locations within the cell. The encoded protein is reported to participate in protein-protein interactions with the R-subunit of the protein kinase A as well as sperm-associated proteins. This protein is expressed in spermatozoa and localized to the acrosomal region of the sperm head as well as the length of the principal piece. It may function as a regulator of motility, capacitation, and the acrosome reaction. [provided by RefSeq, May 2013]	AKAP3 (A Kinase (PRKA) Anchor Protein 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase A binding. An important paralog of this gene is AKAP4.	May function as a regulator of both motility- and head-associated functions such as capacitation and the acrosome reaction	same
AKR1C1	This gene encodes a member of the aldo/keto reductase superfamily, which consists of more than 40 known enzymes and proteins. These enzymes catalyze the conversion of aldehydes and ketones to their corresponding alcohols by utilizing NADH and/or NADPH as cofactors. The enzymes display overlapping but distinct substrate specificity. This enzyme catalyzes the reaction of progesterone to the inactive form 20-alpha-hydroxy-progesterone. This gene shares high sequence identity with three other gene members and is clustered with those three genes at chromosome 10p15-p14. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AKR1C1 (Aldo-Keto Reductase Family 1, Member C1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AKR1C1 include endometrial cancer. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include aldo-keto reductase (NADP) activity and alditol:NADP+ 1-oxidoreductase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AKR1B1.	Converts progesterone to its inactive form, 20-alpha-dihydroxyprogesterone (20-alpha-OHP). In the liver and intestine, may have a role in the transport of bile. May have a role in monitoring the intrahepatic bile acid concentration. Has a low bile-binding ability. May play a role in myelin formation.	same
AK1	Adenylate kinase is an enzyme involved in regulating the adenine nucleotide composition within a cell by catalyzing the reversible transfer of phosphate group among adinine nucleotides. Three isozymes of adenylate kinase have been identified in vertebrates, adenylate isozyme 1 (AK1), 2 (AK2) and 3 (AK3). AK1 is found in the cytosol of skeletal muscle, brain and erythrocytes, whereas AK2 and AK3 are found in the mitochondria of other tissues including liver and heart. AK1 was identified because of its association with a rare genetic disorder causing nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia where a mutation in the AK1 gene was found to reduce the catalytic activity of the enzyme. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AK1 (Adenylate Kinase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AK1 include hemolytic anemia due to adenylate kinase deficiency and hemolytic anemia. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleoside diphosphate kinase activity and adenylate kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CMPK1.	Catalyzes the reversible transfer of the terminal phosphate group between ATP and AMP. Also displays broad nucleoside diphosphate kinase activity. Plays an important role in cellular energy homeostasis and in adenine nucleotide metabolism.	same
AKAP12	The A-kinase anchor proteins (AKAPs) are a group of structurally diverse proteins, which have the common function of binding to the regulatory subunit of protein kinase A (PKA) and confining the holoenzyme to discrete locations within the cell. This gene encodes a member of the AKAP family. The encoded protein is expressed in endothelial cells, cultured fibroblasts, and osteosarcoma cells. It associates with protein kinases A and C and phosphatase, and serves as a scaffold protein in signal transduction. This protein and RII PKA colocalize at the cell periphery. This protein is a cell growth-related protein. Antibodies to this protein can be produced by patients with myasthenia gravis. Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AKAP12 (A Kinase (PRKA) Anchor Protein 12) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase A binding and adenylate cyclase binding.	Anchoring protein that mediates the subcellular compartmentation of protein kinase A (PKA) and protein kinase C (PKC)	same
AKR1B1	This gene encodes a member of the aldo/keto reductase superfamily, which consists of more than 40 known enzymes and proteins. This member catalyzes the reduction of a number of aldehydes, including the aldehyde form of glucose, and is thereby implicated in the development of diabetic complications by catalyzing the reduction of glucose to sorbitol. Multiple pseudogenes have been identified for this gene. The nomenclature system used by the HUGO Gene Nomenclature Committee to define human aldo-keto reductase family members is known to differ from that used by the Mouse Genome Informatics database. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]	AKR1B1 (Aldo-Keto Reductase Family 1, Member B1 (Aldose Reductase)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AKR1B1 include diabetic neuropathy and diabetic autonomic neuropathy. Among its related pathways are Pathways in cancer and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and alditol:NADP+ 1-oxidoreductase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AKR1C2.	Catalyzes the NADPH-dependent reduction of a wide variety of carbonyl-containing compounds to their corresponding alcohols with a broad range of catalytic efficiencies	same
AKR1C4	This gene encodes a member of the aldo/keto reductase superfamily, which consists of more than 40 known enzymes and proteins. These enzymes catalyze the conversion of aldehydes and ketones to their corresponding alcohols by utilizing NADH and/or NADPH as cofactors. The enzymes display overlapping but distinct substrate specificity. This enzyme catalyzes the bioreduction of chlordecone, a toxic organochlorine pesticide, to chlordecone alcohol in liver. This gene shares high sequence identity with three other gene members and is clustered with those three genes at chromosome 10p15-p14. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AKR1C4 (Aldo-Keto Reductase Family 1, Member C4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AKR1C4 include 46xy sex reversal 8 and 46,xy disorder of sex development due to isolated 17,20 lyase deficiency. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and oxidoreductase activity, acting on NAD(P)H, quinone or similar compound as acceptor. An important paralog of this gene is AKR1B1.	Catalyzes the transformation of the potent androgen dihydrotestosterone (DHT) into the less active form, 5-alpha-androstan-3-alpha,17-beta-diol (3-alpha-diol). Also has some 20-alpha-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase activity. The biotransformation of the pesticide chlordecone (kepone) to its corresponding alcohol leads to increased biliary excretion of the pesticide and concomitant reduction of its neurotoxicity since bile is the major excretory route	same
AKR1C2	This gene encodes a member of the aldo/keto reductase superfamily, which consists of more than 40 known enzymes and proteins. These enzymes catalyze the conversion of aldehydes and ketones to their corresponding alcohols using NADH and/or NADPH as cofactors. The enzymes display overlapping but distinct substrate specificity. This enzyme binds bile acid with high affinity, and shows minimal 3-alpha-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase activity. This gene shares high sequence identity with three other gene members and is clustered with those three genes at chromosome 10p15-p14. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	AKR1C2 (Aldo-Keto Reductase Family 1, Member C2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AKR1C2 include 46xy sex reversal 8 and 46,xy disorder of sex development due to isolated 17,20 lyase deficiency. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include oxidoreductase activity, acting on NAD(P)H, quinone or similar compound as acceptor and carboxylic acid binding. An important paralog of this gene is AKR1B1.	Works in concert with the 5-alpha/5-beta-steroid reductases to convert steroid hormones into the 3-alpha/5-alpha and 3-alpha/5-beta-tetrahydrosteroids. Catalyzes the inactivation of the most potent androgen 5-alpha-dihydrotestosterone (5-alpha-DHT) to 5-alpha-androstane-3-alpha,17-beta-diol (3-alpha-diol). Has a high bile-binding ability.	same
AKR1A1	This gene encodes a member of the aldo/keto reductase superfamily, which consists of more than 40 known enzymes and proteins. This member, also known as aldehyde reductase, is involved in the reduction of biogenic and xenobiotic aldehydes and is present in virtually every tissue. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene exist, all encoding the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]	AKR1A1 (Aldo-Keto Reductase Family 1, Member A1 (Aldehyde Reductase)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AKR1A1 include ethylene glycol poisoning and methanol poisoning. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Doxorubicin Pathway (Cardiomyocyte Cell), Pharmacodynamics. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and L-glucuronate reductase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AKR1B1.	Catalyzes the NADPH-dependent reduction of a variety of aromatic and aliphatic aldehydes to their corresponding alcohols. Catalyzes the reduction of mevaldate to mevalonic acid and of glyceraldehyde to glycerol. Has broad substrate specificity. In vitro substrates include succinic semialdehyde, 4-nitrobenzaldehyde, 1,2-naphthoquinone, methylglyoxal, and D-glucuronic acid. Plays a role in the activation of procarcinogens, such as polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon trans-dihydrodiols, and in the metabolism of various xenobiotics and drugs, including the anthracyclines doxorubicin (DOX) and daunorubicin (DAUN).	same
AKR1D1	The enzyme encoded by this gene is responsible for the catalysis of the 5-beta-reduction of bile acid intermediates and steroid hormones carrying a delta(4)-3-one structure. Deficiency of this enzyme may contribute to hepatic dysfunction. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. Other variants may be present, but their full-length natures have not been determined yet. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]	AKR1D1 (Aldo-Keto Reductase Family 1, Member D1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AKR1D1 include bile acid synthesis defect, congenital, 2 and congenital bile acid synthesis defect. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include steroid binding and delta4-3-oxosteroid 5beta-reductase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AKR1B1.	Efficiently catalyzes the reduction of progesterone, androstenedione, 17-alpha-hydroxyprogesterone and testosterone to 5-beta-reduced metabolites. The bile acid intermediates 7-alpha,12-alpha-dihydroxy-4-cholesten-3-one and 7-alpha-hydroxy-4-cholesten-3-one can also act as substrates.	same
AKAP14	The A-kinase anchor proteins (AKAPs) are a group of structurally diverse proteins, which have the common function of binding to the regulatory subunit of protein kinase A (PKA) and confining the holoenzyme to discrete locations within the cell. This gene encodes a member of the AKAP family. The protein anchors PKA in ciliary axonemes and, in this way, may play a role in regulating ciliary beat frequency. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AKAP14 (A Kinase (PRKA) Anchor Protein 14) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase A binding.	Binds to type II regulatory subunits of protein kinase A and anchors/targets them	same
AKIRIN1	empty	AKIRIN1 (Akirin 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is AKIRIN2.	empty	same
AKR1CL1	empty	AKR1C8P (Aldo-Keto Reductase Family 1, Member C8, Pseudogene) is a Pseudogene.	empty	diff
AKR7A2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the aldo/keto reductase (AKR) superfamily and AKR7 family, which are involved in the detoxification of aldehydes and ketones. The AKR7 family consists of 3 genes that are present in a cluster on the p arm of chromosome 1. This protein, thought to be localized in the golgi, catalyzes the NADPH-dependent reduction of succinic semialdehyde to the endogenous neuromodulator, gamma-hydroxybutyrate. It may also function as a detoxication enzyme in the reduction of aflatoxin B1 and 2-carboxybenzaldehyde. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]	AKR7A2 (Aldo-Keto Reductase Family 7, Member A2 (Aflatoxin Aldehyde Reductase)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AKR7A2 include succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency and urinary schistosomiasis. Among its related pathways are Biological oxidations and Naphthalene metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and phenanthrene-9,10-epoxide hydrolase activity. An important paralog of this gene is KCNAB2.	Catalyzes the NADPH-dependent reduction of succinic semialdehyde to gamma-hydroxybutyrate. May have an important role in producing the neuromodulator gamma-hydroxybutyrate (GHB). Has broad substrate specificity. Has NADPH-dependent aldehyde reductase activity towards 2-carboxybenzaldehyde, 2-nitrobenzaldehyde and pyridine-2-aldehyde (in vitro). Can reduce 1,2-naphthoquinone and 9,10-phenanthrenequinone (in vitro). Can reduce the dialdehyde protein-binding form of aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) to the non-binding AFB1 dialcohol. May be involved in protection of liver against the toxic and carcinogenic effects of AFB1, a potent hepatocarcinogen.	same
AKR7A3	Aldo-keto reductases, such as AKR7A3, are involved in the detoxification of aldehydes and ketones.[supplied by OMIM, Apr 2004]	AKR7A3 (Aldo-Keto Reductase Family 7, Member A3 (Aflatoxin Aldehyde Reductase)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AKR7A3 include adult respiratory distress syndrome. Among its related pathways are Biological oxidations and Chemical carcinogenesis. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and aldo-keto reductase (NADP) activity. An important paralog of this gene is KCNAB2.	Can reduce the dialdehyde protein-binding form of aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) to the non-binding AFB1 dialcohol. May be involved in protection of liver against the toxic and carcinogenic effects of AFB1, a potent hepatocarcinogen.	same
AKT1S1	AKT1S1 is a proline-rich substrate of AKT (MIM 164730) that binds 14-3-3 protein (see YWHAH, MIM 113508) when phosphorylated (Kovacina et al., 2003 [PubMed 12524439]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	AKT1S1 (AKT1 Substrate 1 (Proline-Rich)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are PI-3K cascade and PI-3K cascade.	Subunit of mTORC1, which regulates cell growth and survival in response to nutrient and hormonal signals. mTORC1 is activated in response to growth factors or amino acids. Growth factor-stimulated mTORC1 activation involves a AKT1-mediated phosphorylation of TSC1-TSC2, which leads to the activation of the RHEB GTPase that potently activates the protein kinase activity of mTORC1. Amino acid-signaling to mTORC1 requires its relocalization to the lysosomes mediated by the Ragulator complex and the Rag GTPases. Activated mTORC1 up-regulates protein synthesis by phosphorylating key regulators of mRNA translation and ribosome synthesis. mTORC1 phosphorylates EIF4EBP1 and releases it from inhibiting the elongation initiation factor 4E (eiF4E). mTORC1 phosphorylates and activates S6K1 at Thr-389, which then promotes protein synthesis by phosphorylating PDCD4 and targeting it for degradation. Within mTORC1, AKT1S1 negatively regulates mTOR activity in a manner that is dependent on its phosphorylation state and binding to 14-3-3 proteins. Inhibits RHEB-GTP-dependent mTORC1 activation. Substrate for AKT1 phosphorylation, but can also be activated by AKT1-independent mechanisms. May also play a role in nerve growth factor-mediated neuroprotection.	same
AKT1	The serine-threonine protein kinase encoded by the AKT1 gene is catalytically inactive in serum-starved primary and immortalized fibroblasts. AKT1 and the related AKT2 are activated by platelet-derived growth factor. The activation is rapid and specific, and it is abrogated by mutations in the pleckstrin homology domain of AKT1. It was shown that the activation occurs through phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase. In the developing nervous system AKT is a critical mediator of growth factor-induced neuronal survival. Survival factors can suppress apoptosis in a transcription-independent manner by activating the serine/threonine kinase AKT1, which then phosphorylates and inactivates components of the apoptotic machinery. Mutations in this gene have been associated with the Proteus syndrome. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]	AKT1 (V-Akt Murine Thymoma Viral Oncogene Homolog 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AKT1 include cowden syndrome 6 and proteus syndrome, somatic. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and PI-3K cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and enzyme binding. An important paralog of this gene is GRK6.	AKT1 is one of 3 closely related serine/threonine-protein kinases (AKT1, AKT2 and AKT3) called the AKT kinase, and which regulate many processes including metabolism, proliferation, cell survival, growth and angiogenesis. This is mediated through serine and/or threonine phosphorylation of a range of downstream substrates. Over 100 substrate candidates have been reported so far, but for most of them, no isoform specificity has been reported. AKT is responsible of the regulation of glucose uptake by mediating insulin-induced translocation of the SLC2A4/GLUT4 glucose transporter to the cell surface. Phosphorylation of PTPN1 at Ser-50 negatively modulates its phosphatase activity preventing dephosphorylation of the insulin receptor and the attenuation of insulin signaling. Phosphorylation of TBC1D4 triggers the binding of this effector to inhibitory 14-3-3 proteins, which is required for insulin-stimulated glucose transport. AKT regulates also the storage of glucose in the form of glycogen by phosphorylating GSK3A at Ser-21 and GSK3B at Ser-9, resulting in inhibition of its kinase activity. Phosphorylation of GSK3 isoforms by AKT is also thought to be one mechanism by which cell proliferation is driven. AKT regulates also cell survival via the phosphorylation of MAP3K5 (apoptosis signal-related kinase). Phosphorylation of Ser-83 decreases MAP3K5 kinase activity stimulated by oxidative stress and thereby prevents apoptosis. AKT mediates insulin-stimulated protein synthesis by phosphorylating TSC2 at Ser-939 and Thr-1462, thereby activating mTORC1 signaling and leading to both phosphorylation of 4E-BP1 and in activation of RPS6KB1. AKT is involved in the phosphorylation of members of the FOXO factors (Forkhead family of transcription factors), leading to binding of 14-3-3 proteins and cytoplasmic localization. In particular, FOXO1 is phosphorylated at Thr-24, Ser-256 and Ser-319. FOXO3 and FOXO4 are phosphorylated on equivalent sites. AKT has an important role in the regulation of NF-kappa-B-dependent gene transcription and positively regulates the activity of CREB1 (cyclic AMP (cAMP)-response element binding protein). The phosphorylation of CREB1 induces the binding of accessory proteins that are necessary for the transcription of pro-survival genes such as BCL2 and MCL1. AKT phosphorylates Ser-454 on ATP citrate lyase (ACLY), thereby potentially regulating ACLY activity and fatty acid synthesis. Activates the 3B isoform of cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase (PDE3B) via phosphorylation of Ser-273, resulting in reduced cyclic AMP levels and inhibition of lipolysis. Phosphorylates PIKFYVE on Ser-318, which results in increased PI(3)P-5 activity. The Rho GTPase-activating protein DLC1 is another substrate and its phosphorylation is implicated in the regulation cell proliferation and cell growth. AKT plays a role as key modulator of the AKT-mTOR signaling pathway controlling the tempo of the process of newborn neurons integration during adult neurogenesis, including correct neuron positioning, dendritic development and synapse formation. Signals downstream of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI(3)K) to mediate the effects of various growth factors such as platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), epidermal growth factor (EGF), insulin and insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I). AKT mediates the antiapoptotic effects of IGF-I. Essential for the SPATA13-mediated regulation of cell migration and adhesion assembly and disassembly. May be involved in the regulation of the placental development. Phosphorylates STK4/MST1 at Thr-120 and Thr-387 leading to inhibition of its: kinase activity, nuclear translocation, autophosphorylation and ability to phosphorylate FOXO3. Phosphorylates STK3/MST2 at Thr-117 and Thr-384 leading to inhibition of its: cleavage, kinase activity, autophosphorylation at Thr-180, binding to RASSF1 and nuclear translocation. Phosphorylates SRPK2 and enhances its kinase activity towards SRSF2 and ACIN1 and promotes its nuclear translocation. Phosphorylates RAF1 at Ser-259 and negatively regulates its activity. Phosphorylation of BAD stimulates its pro-apoptotic activity. Phosphorylates KAT6A at Thr-369 and this phosphorylation inhibits the interaction of KAT6A with PML and negatively regulates its acetylation activity towards p53/TP53	same
AKD1	empty	AK9 (Adenylate Kinase 9) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleoside-triphosphatase activity and nucleoside phosphate kinase activity.	Involved in maintaining the homeostasis of cellular nucleotides by catalyzing the interconversion of nucleoside phosphates. Has both nucleoside monophosphate and diphosphate kinase activities. Catalyzes the phosphorylation of AMP, dAMP, CMP and dCMP with ATP as phosphate donor and of CMP with GTP as phosphate donor. Also catalyzes the production of ATP, CTP, GTP, UTP, dATP, dCTP, dGTP and TTP from the corresponding diphosphate substrates with either ATP or GTP as phosphate donor. Shows substrate preference of CDP > UDP > ADP > GDP > TDP.	diff
AKR1B10	This gene encodes a member of the aldo/keto reductase superfamily, which consists of more than 40 known enzymes and proteins. This member can efficiently reduce aliphatic and aromatic aldehydes, and it is less active on hexoses. It is highly expressed in adrenal gland, small intestine, and colon, and may play an important role in liver carcinogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AKR1B10 (Aldo-Keto Reductase Family 1, Member B10 (Aldose Reductase)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AKR1B10 include hepatocellular carcinoma. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include aldo-keto reductase (NADP) activity and indanol dehydrogenase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AKR1B1.	Acts as all-trans-retinaldehyde reductase. Can efficiently reduce aliphatic and aromatic aldehydes, and is less active on hexoses (in vitro). May be responsible for detoxification of reactive aldehydes in the digested food before the nutrients are passed on to other organs.	same
AKR1E2	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the aldo-keto reductase superfamily. Members in this family are characterized by their structure (evolutionarily highly conserved TIM barrel) and function (NAD(P)H-dependent oxido-reduction of carbonyl groups). Transcripts of this gene have been reported in specimens of human testis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012]	AKR1E2 (Aldo-Keto Reductase Family 1, Member E2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include 1,5-anhydro-D-fructose reductase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AKR1B1.	Catalyzes the NADPH-dependent reduction of 1,5-anhydro-D-fructose (AF) to 1,5-anhydro-D-glucitol. Can also catalyze the reduction of various aldehydes and quinones (By similarity). Has low NADPH-dependent reductase activity towards 9,10-phenanthrenequinone (in vitro).	same
AKT3	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the AKT, also called PKB, serine/threonine protein kinase family. AKT kinases are known to be regulators of cell signaling in response to insulin and growth factors. They are involved in a wide variety of biological processes including cell proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis, tumorigenesis, as well as glycogen synthesis and glucose uptake. This kinase has been shown to be stimulated by platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), insulin, and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF1). Alternatively splice transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AKT3 (V-Akt Murine Thymoma Viral Oncogene Homolog 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AKT3 include megalencephaly-polymicrogyria-polydactyly-hydrocephalus syndrome 2 and hemimegalencephaly. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and PI-3K cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and protein kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AKT1.	AKT3 is one of 3 closely related serine/threonine-protein kinases (AKT1, AKT2 and AKT3) called the AKT kinase, and which regulate many processes including metabolism, proliferation, cell survival, growth and angiogenesis. This is mediated through serine and/or threonine phosphorylation of a range of downstream substrates. Over 100 substrate candidates have been reported so far, but for most of them, no isoform specificity has been reported. AKT3 is the least studied AKT isoform. It plays an important role in brain development and is crucial for the viability of malignant glioma cells. AKT3 isoform may also be the key molecule in up-regulation and down-regulation of MMP13 via IL13. Required for the coordination of mitochondrial biogenesis with growth factor-induced increases in cellular energy demands. Down-regulation by RNA interference reduces the expression of the phosphorylated form of BAD, resulting in the induction of caspase-dependent apoptosis.	same
AKTIP	The mouse homolog of this gene produces fused toes and thymic hyperplasia in heterozygous mutant animals while homozygous mutants die in early development. This gene may play a role in apoptosis as these morphological abnormalities are caused by altered patterns of programmed cell death. The protein encoded by this gene is similar to the ubiquitin ligase domain of other ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes but lacks the conserved cysteine residue that enables those enzymes to conjugate ubiquitin to the target protein. This protein interacts directly with serine/threonine kinase protein kinase B (PKB)/Akt and modulates PKB activity by enhancing the phosphorylation of PKB's regulatory sites. Alternative splicing results in two transcript variants encoding the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AKTIP (AKT Interacting Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AKTIP include balanitis xerotica obliterans and balanitis. GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin-like protein transferase activity.	Component of the FTS/Hook/FHIP complex (FHF complex). The FHF complex may function to promote vesicle trafficking and/or fusion via the homotypic vesicular protein sorting complex (the HOPS complex). Regulates apoptosis by enhancing phosphorylation and activation of AKT1. Increases release of TNFSF6 via the AKT1/GSK3B/NFATC1 signaling cascade.	same
AKT2	This gene is a putative oncogene encoding a protein belonging to a subfamily of serine/threonine kinases containing SH2-like (Src homology 2-like) domains. The gene was shown to be amplified and overexpressed in 2 of 8 ovarian carcinoma cell lines and 2 of 15 primary ovarian tumors. Overexpression contributes to the malignant phenotype of a subset of human ductal pancreatic cancers. The encoded protein is a general protein kinase capable of phophorylating several known proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AKT2 (V-Akt Murine Thymoma Viral Oncogene Homolog 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AKT2 include hypoinsulinemic hypoglycemia with hemihypertrophy and hypoinsulinemic hypoglycemia and body hemihypertrophy. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and PI-3K cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AKT1.	AKT2 is one of 3 closely related serine/threonine-protein kinases (AKT1, AKT2 and AKT3) called the AKT kinase, and which regulate many processes including metabolism, proliferation, cell survival, growth and angiogenesis. This is mediated through serine and/or threonine phosphorylation of a range of downstream substrates. Over 100 substrate candidates have been reported so far, but for most of them, no isoform specificity has been reported. AKT is responsible of the regulation of glucose uptake by mediating insulin-induced translocation of the SLC2A4/GLUT4 glucose transporter to the cell surface. Phosphorylation of PTPN1 at Ser-50 negatively modulates its phosphatase activity preventing dephosphorylation of the insulin receptor and the attenuation of insulin signaling. Phosphorylation of TBC1D4 triggers the binding of this effector to inhibitory 14-3-3 proteins, which is required for insulin-stimulated glucose transport. AKT regulates also the storage of glucose in the form of glycogen by phosphorylating GSK3A at Ser-21 and GSK3B at Ser-9, resulting in inhibition of its kinase activity. Phosphorylation of GSK3 isoforms by AKT is also thought to be one mechanism by which cell proliferation is driven. AKT regulates also cell survival via the phosphorylation of MAP3K5 (apoptosis signal-related kinase). Phosphorylation of Ser-83 decreases MAP3K5 kinase activity stimulated by oxidative stress and thereby prevents apoptosis. AKT mediates insulin-stimulated protein synthesis by phosphorylating TSC2 at Ser-939 and Thr-1462, thereby activating mTORC1 signaling and leading to both phosphorylation of 4E-BP1 and in activation of RPS6KB1. AKT is involved in the phosphorylation of members of the FOXO factors (Forkhead family of transcription factors), leading to binding of 14-3-3 proteins and cytoplasmic localization. In particular, FOXO1 is phosphorylated at Thr-24, Ser-256 and Ser-319. FOXO3 and FOXO4 are phosphorylated on equivalent sites. AKT has an important role in the regulation of NF-kappa-B-dependent gene transcription and positively regulates the activity of CREB1 (cyclic AMP (cAMP)-response element binding protein). The phosphorylation of CREB1 induces the binding of accessory proteins that are necessary for the transcription of pro-survival genes such as BCL2 and MCL1. AKT phosphorylates Ser-454 on ATP citrate lyase (ACLY), thereby potentially regulating ACLY activity and fatty acid synthesis. Activates the 3B isoform of cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase (PDE3B) via phosphorylation of Ser-273, resulting in reduced cyclic AMP levels and inhibition of lipolysis. Phosphorylates PIKFYVE on Ser-318, which results in increased PI(3)P-5 activity. The Rho GTPase-activating protein DLC1 is another substrate and its phosphorylation is implicated in the regulation cell proliferation and cell growth. AKT plays a role as key modulator of the AKT-mTOR signaling pathway controlling the tempo of the process of newborn neurons integration during adult neurogenesis, including correct neuron positioning, dendritic development and synapse formation. Signals downstream of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI(3)K) to mediate the effects of various growth factors such as platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), epidermal growth factor (EGF), insulin and insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I). AKT mediates the antiapoptotic effects of IGF-I. Essential for the SPATA13-mediated regulation of cell migration and adhesion assembly and disassembly. May be involved in the regulation of the placental development	same
ALAD	The ALAD enzyme is composed of 8 identical subunits and catalyzes the condensation of 2 molecules of delta-aminolevulinate to form porphobilinogen (a precursor of heme, cytochromes and other hemoproteins). ALAD catalyzes the second step in the porphyrin and heme biosynthetic pathway; zinc is essential for enzymatic activity. ALAD enzymatic activity is inhibited by lead and a defect in the ALAD structural gene can cause increased sensitivity to lead poisoning and acute hepatic porphyria. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ALAD (Aminolevulinate Dehydratase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALAD include porphyria, acute hepatic and porphyria due to ala dehydratase deficiency. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and lead ion binding.	Catalyzes an early step in the biosynthesis of tetrapyrroles. Binds two molecules of 5-aminolevulinate per subunit, each at a distinct site, and catalyzes their condensation to form porphobilinogen.	same
AKR1C3	This gene encodes a member of the aldo/keto reductase superfamily, which consists of more than 40 known enzymes and proteins. These enzymes catalyze the conversion of aldehydes and ketones to their corresponding alcohols by utilizing NADH and/or NADPH as cofactors. The enzymes display overlapping but distinct substrate specificity. This enzyme catalyzes the reduction of prostaglandin (PG) D2, PGH2 and phenanthrenequinone (PQ), and the oxidation of 9alpha,11beta-PGF2 to PGD2. It may play an important role in the pathogenesis of allergic diseases such as asthma, and may also have a role in controlling cell growth and/or differentiation. This gene shares high sequence identity with three other gene members and is clustered with those three genes at chromosome 10p15-p14. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	AKR1C3 (Aldo-Keto Reductase Family 1, Member C3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AKR1C3 include renal cell carcinoma, papillary and asthma. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include retinol dehydrogenase activity and oxidoreductase activity, acting on NAD(P)H, quinone or similar compound as acceptor. An important paralog of this gene is AKR1B1.	Catalyzes the conversion of aldehydes and ketones to alcohols. Catalyzes the reduction of prostaglandin (PG) D2, PGH2 and phenanthrenequinone (PQ) and the oxidation of 9-alpha,11-beta-PGF2 to PGD2. Functions as a bi-directional 3-alpha-, 17-beta- and 20-alpha HSD. Can interconvert active androgens, estrogens and progestins with their cognate inactive metabolites. Preferentially transforms androstenedione (4-dione) to testosterone	same
ALCAM	This gene encodes activated leukocyte cell adhesion molecule (ALCAM), also known as CD166 (cluster of differentiation 166), which is a member of a subfamily of immunoglobulin receptors with five immunoglobulin-like domains (VVC2C2C2) in the extracellular domain. This protein binds to T-cell differentiation antigene CD6, and is implicated in the processes of cell adhesion and migration. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	ALCAM (Activated Leukocyte Cell Adhesion Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are L1CAM interactions and L1CAM interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding. An important paralog of this gene is MCAM.	Cell adhesion molecule that binds to CD6. Involved in neurite extension by neurons via heterophilic and homophilic interactions. May play a role in the binding of T- and B-cells to activated leukocytes, as well as in interactions between cells of the nervous system	same
ALB	Albumin is a soluble, monomeric protein which comprises about one-half of the blood serum protein. Albumin functions primarily as a carrier protein for steroids, fatty acids, and thyroid hormones and plays a role in stabilizing extracellular fluid volume. Albumin is a globular unglycosylated serum protein of molecular weight 65,000. Albumin is synthesized in the liver as preproalbumin which has an N-terminal peptide that is removed before the nascent protein is released from the rough endoplasmic reticulum. The product, proalbumin, is in turn cleaved in the Golgi vesicles to produce the secreted albumin. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ALB (Albumin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALB include analbuminemia and dysalbuminemic hyperthyroxinemia. Among its related pathways are Hemostasis and Hemostasis. GO annotations related to this gene include enzyme binding and drug binding. An important paralog of this gene is AFM.	Serum albumin, the main protein of plasma, has a good binding capacity for water, Ca(2+), Na(+), K(+), fatty acids, hormones, bilirubin and drugs. Its main function is the regulation of the colloidal osmotic pressure of blood. Major zinc transporter in plasma, typically binds about 80% of all plasma zinc.	same
ALDH18A1	This gene is a member of the aldehyde dehydrogenase family and encodes a bifunctional ATP- and NADPH-dependent mitochondrial enzyme with both gamma-glutamyl kinase and gamma-glutamyl phosphate reductase activities. The encoded protein catalyzes the reduction of glutamate to delta1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate, a critical step in the de novo biosynthesis of proline, ornithine and arginine. Mutations in this gene lead to hyperammonemia, hypoornithinemia, hypocitrullinemia, hypoargininemia and hypoprolinemia and may be associated with neurodegeneration, cataracts and connective tissue diseases. Alternatively spliced transcript variants, encoding different isoforms, have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ALDH18A1 (Aldehyde Dehydrogenase 18 Family, Member A1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALDH18A1 include cutis laxa, autosomal recessive, type iiia and aldh18a1-related cutis laxa. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Carbon metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include glutamate 5-kinase activity and glutamate-5-semialdehyde dehydrogenase activity.	Bifunctional enzyme that converts glutamate to glutamate 5-semialdehyde, an intermediate in the biosynthesis of proline, ornithine and arginine.	same
ALDH16A1	This gene encodes a member of the aldehyde dehydrogenase superfamily. The family members act on aldehyde substrates and use nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADP) as a cofactor. This gene is conserved in chimpanzee, dog, cow, mouse, rat, and zebrafish. The protein encoded by this gene interacts with maspardin, a protein that when truncated is responsible for Mast syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]	ALDH16A1 (Aldehyde Dehydrogenase 16 Family, Member A1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALDH16A1 include mast syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include oxidoreductase activity, acting on the aldehyde or oxo group of donors, NAD or NADP as acceptor.	empty	same
ALDH1A1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase family. Aldehyde dehydrogenase is the next enzyme after alcohol dehydrogenase in the major pathway of alcohol metabolism. There are two major aldehyde dehydrogenase isozymes in the liver, cytosolic and mitochondrial, which are encoded by distinct genes, and can be distinguished by their electrophoretic mobility, kinetic properties, and subcellular localization. This gene encodes the cytosolic isozyme. Studies in mice show that through its role in retinol metabolism, this gene may also be involved in the regulation of the metabolic responses to high-fat diet. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]	ALDH1A1 (Aldehyde Dehydrogenase 1 Family, Member A1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALDH1A1 include erythroplakia and gallbladder adenocarcinoma. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include androgen binding. An important paralog of this gene is ALDH1A2.	Binds free retinal and cellular retinol-binding protein-bound retinal. Can convert/oxidize retinaldehyde to retinoic acid (By similarity).	same
ALDH1B1	This protein belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenases family of proteins. Aldehyde dehydrogenase is the second enzyme of the major oxidative pathway of alcohol metabolism. This gene does not contain introns in the coding sequence. The variation of this locus may affect the development of alcohol-related problems. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ALDH1B1 (Aldehyde Dehydrogenase 1 Family, Member B1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALDH1B1 include succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency. Among its related pathways are Arginine and proline metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include aldehyde dehydrogenase (NAD) activity. An important paralog of this gene is ALDH1A2.	ALDHs play a major role in the detoxification of alcohol-derived acetaldehyde. They are involved in the metabolism of corticosteroids, biogenic amines, neurotransmitters, and lipid peroxidation	same
ALDH1A3	This gene encodes an aldehyde dehydrogenase enzyme that uses retinal as a substrate. Mutations in this gene have been associated with microphthalmia, isolated 8, and expression changes have also been detected in tumor cells. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2014]	ALDH1A3 (Aldehyde Dehydrogenase 1 Family, Member A3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALDH1A3 include microphthalmia, isolated 8 and anophthalmia/microphthalmia. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Chemical carcinogenesis. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and aldehyde dehydrogenase (NAD) activity. An important paralog of this gene is ALDH1A2.	Recognizes as substrates free retinal and cellular retinol-binding protein-bound retinal. Seems to be the key enzyme in the formation of an RA gradient along the dorso-ventral axis during the early eye development and also in the development of the olfactory system (By similarity).	same
AKR7L	This gene is one of three aldo-keto reductase genes that are present in a cluster on the p arm of chromosome 1. The encoded proteins are involved in the reduction of the dialdehyde protein-binding form of aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) to the non-binding AFB1 dialcohol. It has been speculated that this family member encodes a selenoprotein, which includes a selenocysteine (Sec) residue in lieu of a UGA translational termination codon. However, there is no evidence that such a protein is produced in vivo. The alternative interpretation is that this family member is a duplicated pseudogene, and it is therefore represented as such in this Gene record. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]	AKR7L (Aldo-Keto Reductase Family 7-Like (Gene/Pseudogene)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include oxidoreductase activity. An important paralog of this gene is KCNAB2.	Can reduce the dialdehyde protein-binding form of aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) to the non-binding AFB1 dialcohol. May be involved in protection of liver against the toxic and carcinogenic effects of AFB1, a potent hepatocarcinogen (By similarity).	same
ALAS1	This gene encodes the mitochondrial enzyme which is catalyzes the rate-limiting step in heme (iron-protoporphyrin) biosynthesis. The enzyme encoded by this gene is the housekeeping enzyme; a separate gene encodes a form of the enzyme that is specific for erythroid tissue. The level of the mature encoded protein is regulated by heme: high levels of heme down-regulate the mature enzyme in mitochondria while low heme levels up-regulate. A pseudogene of this gene is located on chromosome 12. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2015]	ALAS1 (5'-Aminolevulinate Synthase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALAS1 include porphyria, acute intermittent and acute porphyria. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include pyridoxal phosphate binding and 5-aminolevulinate synthase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ALAS2.	empty	same
ALDH3A2	Aldehyde dehydrogenase isozymes are thought to play a major role in the detoxification of aldehydes generated by alcohol metabolism and lipid peroxidation. This gene product catalyzes the oxidation of long-chain aliphatic aldehydes to fatty acid. Mutations in the gene cause Sjogren-Larsson syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ALDH3A2 (Aldehyde Dehydrogenase 3 Family, Member A2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALDH3A2 include sjogren-larsson syndrome and spastic diplegia. Among its related pathways are Arginine and proline metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include aldehyde dehydrogenase (NAD) activity and long-chain-alcohol oxidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ALDH3A1.	Catalyzes the oxidation of long-chain aliphatic aldehydes to fatty acids. Active on a variety of saturated and unsaturated aliphatic aldehydes between 6 and 24 carbons in length. Responsible for conversion of the sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P) degradation product hexadecenal to hexadecenoic acid.	same
ALDH3A1	Aldehyde dehydrogenases oxidize various aldehydes to the corresponding acids. They are involved in the detoxification of alcohol-derived acetaldehyde and in the metabolism of corticosteroids, biogenic amines, neurotransmitters, and lipid peroxidation. The enzyme encoded by this gene forms a cytoplasmic homodimer that preferentially oxidizes aromatic and medium-chain (6 carbons or more) saturated and unsaturated aldehyde substrates. It is thought to promote resistance to UV and 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal-induced oxidative damage in the cornea. The gene is located within the Smith-Magenis syndrome region on chromosome 17. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008]	ALDH3A1 (Aldehyde Dehydrogenase 3 Family, Member A1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALDH3A1 include sjogren-larsson syndrome and breast adenocarcinoma. Among its related pathways are AhR pathway (WikiPathways) and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include aldehyde dehydrogenase (NAD) activity and 3-chloroallyl aldehyde dehydrogenase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ALDH3B2.	ALDHs play a major role in the detoxification of alcohol-derived acetaldehyde. They are involved in the metabolism of corticosteroids, biogenic amines, neurotransmitters, and lipid peroxidation. This protein preferentially oxidizes aromatic aldehyde substrates. It may play a role in the oxidation of toxic aldehydes	same
ALAS2	The product of this gene specifies an erythroid-specific mitochondrially located enzyme. The encoded protein catalyzes the first step in the heme biosynthetic pathway. Defects in this gene cause X-linked pyridoxine-responsive sideroblastic anemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ALAS2 (5'-Aminolevulinate Synthase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALAS2 include anemia, sideroblastic, x-linked and protoporphyria, erythropoietic, x-linked. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include pyridoxal phosphate binding and glycine binding. An important paralog of this gene is GCAT.	empty	same
ALDH3B1	This gene encodes a member of the aldehyde dehydrogenase protein family. Aldehyde dehydrogenases are a family of isozymes that may play a major role in the detoxification of aldehydes generated by alcohol metabolism and lipid peroxidation. The encoded protein is able to oxidize long-chain fatty aldehydes in vitro, and may play a role in protection from oxidative stress. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2014]	ALDH3B1 (Aldehyde Dehydrogenase 3 Family, Member B1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALDH3B1 include schizophrenia. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Chemical carcinogenesis. GO annotations related to this gene include aldehyde dehydrogenase [NAD(P)+] activity and 3-chloroallyl aldehyde dehydrogenase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ALDH3A1.	Oxidizes medium and long chain saturated and unsaturated aldehydes. Metabolizes also benzaldehyde. Low activity towards acetaldehyde and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetaldehyde. May not metabolize short chain aldehydes. May use both NADP(+) and NAD(+) as cofactors. May have a protective role against the cytotoxicity induced by lipid peroxidation.	same
ALDH1L1	The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the conversion of 10-formyltetrahydrofolate, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADP+), and water to tetrahydrofolate, NADPH, and carbon dioxide. The encoded protein belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase family. Loss of function or expression of this gene is associated with decreased apoptosis, increased cell motility, and cancer progression. There is an antisense transcript that overlaps on the opposite strand with this gene locus. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]	ALDH1L1 (Aldehyde Dehydrogenase 1 Family, Member L1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALDH1L1 include methanol poisoning and congenital hydrocephalus. Among its related pathways are One carbon pool by folate and One carbon pool by folate. GO annotations related to this gene include methyltransferase activity and formyltetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ALDH1A2.	empty	same
ALDH5A1	This protein belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase family of proteins. This gene encodes a mitochondrial NAD(+)-dependent succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase. A deficiency of this enzyme, known as 4-hydroxybutyricaciduria, is a rare inborn error in the metabolism of the neurotransmitter 4-aminobutyric acid (GABA). In response to the defect, physiologic fluids from patients accumulate GHB, a compound with numerous neuromodulatory properties. Two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ALDH5A1 (Aldehyde Dehydrogenase 5 Family, Member A1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALDH5A1 include succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency and juvenile absence epilepsy. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Transmission across Chemical Synapses. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and succinate-semialdehyde dehydrogenase [NAD(P)+] activity.	Catalyzes one step in the degradation of the inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA).	same
ALDH3B2	This gene encodes a member of the aldehyde dehydrogenase family, a group of isozymes that may play a major role in the detoxification of aldehydes generated by alcohol metabolism and lipid peroxidation. The gene of this particular family member is over 10 kb in length. The expression of these transcripts is restricted to the salivary gland among the human tissues examined. Alternate transcriptional splice variants have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ALDH3B2 (Aldehyde Dehydrogenase 3 Family, Member B2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Chemical carcinogenesis. GO annotations related to this gene include aldehyde dehydrogenase [NAD(P)+] activity and 3-chloroallyl aldehyde dehydrogenase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ALDH3A1.	empty	same
ALDH7A1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of subfamily 7 in the aldehyde dehydrogenase gene family. These enzymes are thought to play a major role in the detoxification of aldehydes generated by alcohol metabolism and lipid peroxidation. This particular member has homology to a previously described protein from the green garden pea, the 26g pea turgor protein. It is also involved in lysine catabolism that is known to occur in the mitochondrial matrix. Recent reports show that this protein is found both in the cytosol and the mitochondria, and the two forms likely arise from the use of alternative translation initiation sites. An additional variant encoding a different isoform has also been found for this gene. Mutations in this gene are associated with pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy. Several related pseudogenes have also been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]	ALDH7A1 (Aldehyde Dehydrogenase 7 Family, Member A1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALDH7A1 include epilepsy, pyridoxine-dependent and folinic acid-responsive seizures. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Carbon metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include aldehyde dehydrogenase (NAD) activity and betaine-aldehyde dehydrogenase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ALDH1A2.	Multifunctional enzyme mediating important protective effects. Metabolizes betaine aldehyde to betaine, an important cellular osmolyte and methyl donor. Protects cells from oxidative stress by metabolizing a number of lipid peroxidation-derived aldehydes. Involved in lysine catabolism.	same
ALDH8A1	This protein belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenases family of proteins. It plays a role in a pathway of 9-cis-retinoic acid biosynthesis in vivo. This enzyme converts 9-cis-retinal into the retinoid X receptor ligand 9-cis-retinoic acid, and has approximately 40-fold higher activity with 9-cis-retinal than with all-trans-retinal. Therefore, it is the first known aldehyde dehydrogenase to show a preference for 9-cis-retinal relative to all-trans-retinal. Three transcript variants encoding distinct protein isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]	ALDH8A1 (Aldehyde Dehydrogenase 8 Family, Member A1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include retinal dehydrogenase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ALDH1A2.	Converts 9-cis-retinal to 9-cis-retinoic acid. Has lower activity towards 13-cis-retinal. Has much lower activity towards all-trans-retinal. Has highest activity with benzaldehyde and decanal (in vitro). Has a preference for NAD, but shows considerable activity with NADP (in vitro).	same
ALDH9A1	This protein belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase family of proteins. It has a high activity for oxidation of gamma-aminobutyraldehyde and other amino aldehydes. The enzyme catalyzes the dehydrogenation of gamma-aminobutyraldehyde to gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). This isozyme is a tetramer of identical 54-kD subunits. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ALDH9A1 (Aldehyde Dehydrogenase 9 Family, Member A1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALDH9A1 include fetal alcohol spectrum disorder and alcohol dependence. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Arginine and proline metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include aldehyde dehydrogenase (NAD) activity and aminobutyraldehyde dehydrogenase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ALDH1A2.	Converts gamma-trimethylaminobutyraldehyde into gamma-butyrobetaine. Catalyzes the irreversible oxidation of a broad range of aldehydes to the corresponding acids in an NAD-dependent reaction.	same
ALDH4A1	This protein belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase family of proteins. This enzyme is a mitochondrial matrix NAD-dependent dehydrogenase which catalyzes the second step of the proline degradation pathway, converting pyrroline-5-carboxylate to glutamate. Deficiency of this enzyme is associated with type II hyperprolinemia, an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by accumulation of delta-1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate (P5C) and proline. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]	ALDH4A1 (Aldehyde Dehydrogenase 4 Family, Member A1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALDH4A1 include hyperprolinemia, type ii and hyperprolinemia. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Arginine and proline metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and aldehyde dehydrogenase (NAD) activity.	Irreversible conversion of delta-1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate (P5C), derived either from proline or ornithine, to glutamate. This is a necessary step in the pathway interconnecting the urea and tricarboxylic acid cycles. The preferred substrate is glutamic gamma-semialdehyde, other substrates include succinic, glutaric and adipic semialdehydes.	same
ALDH1L2	This gene encodes a member of both the aldehyde dehydrogenase superfamily and the formyl transferase superfamily. This member is the mitochondrial form of 10-formyltetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase (FDH), which converts 10-formyltetrahydrofolate to tetrahydrofolate and CO2 in an NADP(+)-dependent reaction, and plays an essential role in the distribution of one-carbon groups between the cytosolic and mitochondrial compartments of the cell. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]	ALDH1L2 (Aldehyde Dehydrogenase 1 Family, Member L2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are One carbon pool by folate. GO annotations related to this gene include methyltransferase activity and formyltetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ALDH1A2.	empty	same
ALG10B	empty	ALG10B (ALG10B, Alpha-1,2-Glucosyltransferase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALG10B include long qt syndrome. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein. GO annotations related to this gene include transferase activity, transferring hexosyl groups. An important paralog of this gene is ALG10.	Putative alpha-1,2-glucosyltransferase, which adds the third glucose residue to the lipid-linked oligosaccharide precursor for N-linked glycosylation. Transfers glucose from dolichyl phosphate glucose (Dol-P-Glc) onto the lipid-linked oligosaccharide Glc(2)Man(9)GlcNAc(2)-PP-Dol. When coupled to KCNH2 may reduce KCNH2 sensitivity to classic proarrhythmic drug blockade, possibly by mediating glycosylation of KCNH2.	same
ALDOA	The protein encoded by this gene, Aldolase A (fructose-bisphosphate aldolase), is a glycolytic enzyme that catalyzes the reversible conversion of fructose-1,6-bisphosphate to glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate and dihydroxyacetone phosphate. Three aldolase isozymes (A, B, and C), encoded by three different genes, are differentially expressed during development. Aldolase A is found in the developing embryo and is produced in even greater amounts in adult muscle. Aldolase A expression is repressed in adult liver, kidney and intestine and similar to aldolase C levels in brain and other nervous tissue. Aldolase A deficiency has been associated with myopathy and hemolytic anemia. Alternative splicing and alternative promoter usage results in multiple transcript variants. Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 3 and 10. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	ALDOA (Aldolase A, Fructose-Bisphosphate) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALDOA include glycogen storage disease xii and eumycotic mycetoma. Among its related pathways are Hemostasis and Hemostasis. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and cytoskeletal protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is ALDOB.	Plays a key role in glycolysis and gluconeogenesis. In addition, may also function as scaffolding protein (By similarity).	same
ALDH2	This protein belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase family of proteins. Aldehyde dehydrogenase is the second enzyme of the major oxidative pathway of alcohol metabolism. Two major liver isoforms of aldehyde dehydrogenase, cytosolic and mitochondrial, can be distinguished by their electrophoretic mobilities, kinetic properties, and subcellular localizations. Most Caucasians have two major isozymes, while approximately 50% of Orientals have the cytosolic isozyme but not the mitochondrial isozyme. A remarkably higher frequency of acute alcohol intoxication among Orientals than among Caucasians could be related to the absence of a catalytically active form of the mitochondrial isozyme. The increased exposure to acetaldehyde in individuals with the catalytically inactive form may also confer greater susceptibility to many types of cancer. This gene encodes a mitochondrial isoform, which has a low Km for acetaldehydes, and is localized in mitochondrial matrix. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]	ALDH2 (Aldehyde Dehydrogenase 2 Family (Mitochondrial)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALDH2 include alcohol sensitivity, acute and alcoholic neuropathy. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Arginine and proline metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and aldehyde dehydrogenase [NAD(P)+] activity. An important paralog of this gene is ALDH1A2.	Aldehyde dehydrogenase enzymes oxidize aldehydes to generate carboxylic acids for use in the muscle and heart. Numerous aldehyde dehydrogenase genes exist, of which ALDH2 is best known for its role in alcohol oxidation. Over 550 aldehyde genes have been identified across different species, which can be split into numerous families. There are 19 known human aldehyde dehydrogenase genes. ALDH2, a human mitochondrial enzyme belonging to family 2, is responsible for breaking down acetaldehyde produced by ethanol. Inhibition of aldehyde dehydrogenase therefore results in the build-up of acetaldehyde, a toxic metabolite which is thought to be responsible for 'hangover' symptoms.	same
ALG10	This gene encodes a membrane-associated protein that adds the third glucose residue to the lipid-linked oligosaccharide precursor for N-linked glycosylation. That is, it transfers the terminal glucose from dolichyl phosphate glucose (Dol-P-Glc) onto the lipid-linked oligosaccharide Glc2Man9GlcNAc(2)-PP-Dol. The rat protein homolog was shown to specifically modulate the gating function of the rat neuronal ether-a-go-go (EAG) potassium ion channel. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]	ALG10 (ALG10, Alpha-1,2-Glucosyltransferase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALG10 include long qt syndrome 2 and long qt syndrome 1. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein. GO annotations related to this gene include transferase activity, transferring hexosyl groups. An important paralog of this gene is ALG10B.	Adds the third glucose residue to the lipid-linked oligosaccharide precursor for N-linked glycosylation. Transfers glucose from dolichyl phosphate glucose (Dol-P-Glc) onto the lipid-linked oligosaccharide Glc(2)Man(9)GlcNAc(2)-PP-Dol	same
ALDH6A1	This gene encodes a member of the aldehyde dehydrogenase protein family. The encoded protein is a mitochondrial methylmalonate semialdehyde dehydrogenase that plays a role in the valine and pyrimidine catabolic pathways. This protein catalyzes the irreversible oxidative decarboxylation of malonate and methylmalonate semialdehydes to acetyl- and propionyl-CoA. Methylmalonate semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency is characterized by elevated beta-alanine, 3-hydroxypropionic acid, and both isomers of 3-amino and 3-hydroxyisobutyric acids in urine organic acids. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2013]	ALDH6A1 (Aldehyde Dehydrogenase 6 Family, Member A1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALDH6A1 include methylmalonate semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency and developmental delay due to methylmalonate semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include fatty-acyl-CoA binding and malonate-semialdehyde dehydrogenase (acetylating) activity. An important paralog of this gene is ALDH1A2.	Plays a role in valine and pyrimidine metabolism. Binds fatty acyl-CoA	same
ALDOC	This gene encodes a member of the class I fructose-biphosphate aldolase gene family. Expressed specifically in the hippocampus and Purkinje cells of the brain, the encoded protein is a glycolytic enzyme that catalyzes the reversible aldol cleavage of fructose-1,6-biphosphate and fructose 1-phosphate to dihydroxyacetone phosphate and either glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate or glyceraldehyde, respectively. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ALDOC (Aldolase C, Fructose-Bisphosphate) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALDOC include eumycotic mycetoma and mycetoma. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Carbon metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include cytoskeletal protein binding and fructose-bisphosphate aldolase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ALDOB.	empty	same
ALDOB	Fructose-1,6-bisphosphate aldolase (EC 4.1.2.13) is a tetrameric glycolytic enzyme that catalyzes the reversible conversion of fructose-1,6-bisphosphate to glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate and dihydroxyacetone phosphate. Vertebrates have 3 aldolase isozymes which are distinguished by their electrophoretic and catalytic properties. Differences indicate that aldolases A, B, and C are distinct proteins, the products of a family of related 'housekeeping' genes exhibiting developmentally regulated expression of the different isozymes. The developing embryo produces aldolase A, which is produced in even greater amounts in adult muscle where it can be as much as 5% of total cellular protein. In adult liver, kidney and intestine, aldolase A expression is repressed and aldolase B is produced. In brain and other nervous tissue, aldolase A and C are expressed about equally. There is a high degree of homology between aldolase A and C. Defects in ALDOB cause hereditary fructose intolerance. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]	ALDOB (Aldolase B, Fructose-Bisphosphate) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALDOB include fructose intolerance and eumycotic mycetoma. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Carbon metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and ATPase binding. An important paralog of this gene is ALDOA.	empty	same
ALDH1A2	This protein belongs to the aldehyde dehydrogenase family of proteins. The product of this gene is an enzyme that catalyzes the synthesis of retinoic acid (RA) from retinaldehyde. Retinoic acid, the active derivative of vitamin A (retinol), is a hormonal signaling molecule that functions in developing and adult tissues. The studies of a similar mouse gene suggest that this enzyme and the cytochrome CYP26A1, concurrently establish local embryonic retinoic acid levels which facilitate posterior organ development and prevent spina bifida. Four transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]	ALDH1A2 (Aldehyde Dehydrogenase 1 Family, Member A2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and retinoate biosynthesis I. GO annotations related to this gene include retinal binding and 3-chloroallyl aldehyde dehydrogenase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ALDH9A1.	Recognizes as substrates free retinal and cellular retinol-binding protein-bound retinal. Does metabolize octanal and decanal but does not metabolize citral, benzaldehyde, acetaldehyde and propanal efficiently (By similarity).	same
ALG13	The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of a bipartite UDP-N-acetylglucosamine transferase. It heterodimerizes with asparagine-linked glycosylation 14 homolog to form a functional UDP-GlcNAc glycosyltransferase that catalyzes the second sugar addition of the highly conserved oligosaccharide precursor in endoplasmic reticulum N-linked glycosylation. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]	ALG13 (ALG13, UDP-N-Acetylglucosaminyltransferase Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALG13 include congenital disorder of glycosylation, type ie and non-syndromic x-linked intellectual disability. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding and N-acetylglucosaminyldiphosphodolichol N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is OTUD4.	Isoform 1: Possible multifunctional enzyme with both glycosyltransferase and deubiquitinase activities	same
ALG1	The enzyme encoded by this gene catalyzes the first mannosylation step in the biosynthesis of lipid-linked oligosaccharides. This gene is mutated in congenital disorder of glycosylation type Ik. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]	ALG1 (ALG1, Chitobiosyldiphosphodolichol Beta-Mannosyltransferase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALG1 include congenital disorder of glycosylation, type ik and walker-warburg syndrome. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein. GO annotations related to this gene include mannosyltransferase activity and chitobiosyldiphosphodolichol beta-mannosyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ALG1L.	Participates in the formation of the lipid-linked precursor oligosaccharide for N-glycosylation. Involved in assembling the dolichol-pyrophosphate-GlcNAc(2)-Man(5) intermediate on the cytoplasmic surface of the ER.	same
ALG12	This gene encodes a member of the glycosyltransferase 22 family. The encoded protein catalyzes the addition of the eighth mannose residue in an alpha-1,6 linkage onto the dolichol-PP-oligosaccharide precursor (dolichol-PP-Man(7)GlcNAc(2)) required for protein glycosylation. Mutations in this gene have been associated with congenital disorder of glycosylation type Ig (CDG-Ig)characterized by abnormal N-glycosylation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ALG12 (ALG12, Alpha-1,6-Mannosyltransferase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALG12 include congenital disorder of glycosylation, type ig and alg12-congenital disorder of glycosylation. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein. GO annotations related to this gene include alpha-1,6-mannosyltransferase activity and dol-P-Man:Man(7)GlcNAc(2)-PP-Dol alpha-1,6-mannosyltransferase activity.	Adds the eighth mannose residue in an alpha-1,6 linkage onto the dolichol-PP-oligosaccharide precursor (dolichol-PP-Man(7)GlcNAc(2)) required for protein glycosylation	same
ALG1L	empty	ALG1L (ALG1, Chitobiosyldiphosphodolichol Beta-Mannosyltransferase-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include transferase activity, transferring glycosyl groups. An important paralog of this gene is ALG1.	Putative glycosyltransferase.	same
ALG2	This gene encodes a member of the glycosyltransferase 1 family. The encoded protein acts as an alpha 1,3 mannosyltransferase, mannosylating Man(2)GlcNAc(2)-dolichol diphosphate and Man(1)GlcNAc(2)-dolichol diphosphate to form Man(3)GlcNAc(2)-dolichol diphosphate. Defects in this gene have been associated with congenital disorder of glycosylation type Ih (CDG-Ii). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]	ALG2 (ALG2, Alpha-1,3/1,6-Mannosyltransferase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALG2 include congenital disorder of glycosylation, type ii and congenital myasthenic syndromes with glycosylation defect. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein. GO annotations related to this gene include protein heterodimerization activity and calcium-dependent protein binding.	Mannosylates Man(2)GlcNAc(2)-dolichol diphosphate and Man(1)GlcNAc(2)-dolichol diphosphate to form Man(3)GlcNAc(2)-dolichol diphosphate.	same
ALG11	This gene encodes a GDP-Man:Man3GlcNAc2-PP-dolichol-alpha1,2-mannosyltransferase which is localized to the cytosolic side of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and catalyzes the transfer of the fourth and fifth mannose residue from GDP-mannose (GDP-Man) to Man3GlcNAc2-PP-dolichol and Man4GlcNAc2-PP-dolichol resulting in the production of Man5GlcNAc2-PP-dolichol. Mutations in this gene are associated with congenital disorder of glycosylation type Ip (CDGIP). This gene overlaps but is distinct from the UTP14, U3 small nucleolar ribonucleoprotein, homolog C (yeast) gene. A pseudogene of the GDP-Man:Man3GlcNAc2-PP-dolichol-alpha1,2-mannosyltransferase has been identified on chromosome 19. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]	ALG11 (ALG11, Alpha-1,2-Mannosyltransferase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALG11 include congenital disorder of glycosylation, type ip. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein. GO annotations related to this gene include GDP-Man:Man3GlcNAc2-PP-Dol alpha-1,2-mannosyltransferase activity.	Mannosyltransferase involved in the last steps of the synthesis of Man5GlcNAc(2)-PP-dolichol core oligosaccharide on the cytoplasmic face of the endoplasmic reticulum. Catalyzes the addition of the 4th and 5th mannose residues to the dolichol-linked oligosaccharide chain.	same
ALG3	This gene encodes a member of the ALG3 family. The encoded protein catalyses the addition of the first dol-P-Man derived mannose in an alpha 1,3 linkage to Man5GlcNAc2-PP-Dol. Defects in this gene have been associated with congenital disorder of glycosylation type Id (CDG-Id) characterized by abnormal N-glycosylation. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]	ALG3 (ALG3, Alpha-1,3- Mannosyltransferase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALG3 include congenital disorder of glycosylation, type id and hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein. GO annotations related to this gene include alpha-1,3-mannosyltransferase activity and dol-P-Man:Man(5)GlcNAc(2)-PP-Dol alpha-1,3-mannosyltransferase activity.	Adds the first Dol-P-Man derived mannose in an alpha-1,3 linkage to Man5GlcNAc2-PP-Dol.	same
ALG6	This gene encodes a member of the ALG6/ALG8 glucosyltransferase family. The encoded protein catalyzes the addition of the first glucose residue to the growing lipid-linked oligosaccharide precursor of N-linked glycosylation. Mutations in this gene are associated with congenital disorders of glycosylation type Ic. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ALG6 (ALG6, Alpha-1,3-Glucosyltransferase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALG6 include congenital disorder of glycosylation, type ic and protein-losing enteropathy. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein. GO annotations related to this gene include glucosyltransferase activity.	Adds the first glucose residue to the lipid-linked oligosaccharide precursor for N-linked glycosylation. Transfers glucose from dolichyl phosphate glucose (Dol-P-Glc) onto the lipid-linked oligosaccharide Man(9)GlcNAc(2)-PP-Dol	same
ALKBH1	This gene encodes a homolog to the E. coli alkB gene product. The E. coli alkB protein is part of the adaptive response mechanism of DNA alkylation damage repair. It is involved in damage reversal by oxidative demethylation of 1-methyladenine and 3-methylcytosine. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ALKBH1 (AlkB, Alkylation Repair Homolog 1 (E. Coli)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Integrated Breast Cancer Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include chemoattractant activity and DNA-(apurinic or apyrimidinic site) lyase activity.	Dioxygenase that repairs alkylated single-stranded DNA and RNA containing 3-methylcytosine by oxidative demethylation. Requires molecular oxygen, alpha-ketoglutarate and iron. May have a role in placental trophoblast lineage differentiation (By similarity). Has DNA lyase activity and introduces double-stranded breaks at abasic sites. Cleaves both single-stranded DNA and double-stranded DNA at abasic sites, with the greatest activity towards double-stranded DNA with two abasic sites. DNA lyase activity does not require alpha-ketoglutarate and iron.	same
ALG5	This gene encodes a member of the glycosyltransferase 2 family. The encoded protein participates in glucosylation of the oligomannose core in N-linked glycosylation of proteins. The addition of glucose residues to the oligomannose core is necessary to ensure substrate recognition, and therefore, effectual transfer of the oligomannose core to the nascent glycoproteins. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]	ALG5 (ALG5, Dolichyl-Phosphate Beta-Glucosyltransferase) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein. GO annotations related to this gene include oligosaccharyl transferase activity and dolichyl-phosphate beta-glucosyltransferase activity.	empty	same
ALKBH4	empty	ALKBH4 (AlkB, Alkylation Repair Homolog 4 (E. Coli)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding and demethylase activity.	Dioxygenase that mediates demethylation of actin monomethylated at Lys-84 (K84me1), thereby acting as a regulator of actomyosin-processes. Demethylation of actin K84me1 is required for maintaining actomyosin dynamics supporting normal cleavage furrow ingression during cytokinesis and cell migration. May be involved in transcription regulation.	same
ALG8	This gene encodes a member of the ALG6/ALG8 glucosyltransferase family. The encoded protein catalyzes the addition of the second glucose residue to the lipid-linked oligosaccharide precursor for N-linked glycosylation of proteins. Mutations in this gene have been associated with congenital disorder of glycosylation type Ih (CDG-Ih). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ALG8 (ALG8, Alpha-1,3-Glucosyltransferase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALG8 include congenital disorder of glycosylation, type ih. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein. GO annotations related to this gene include alpha-1,3-mannosyltransferase activity.	Adds the second glucose residue to the lipid-linked oligosaccharide precursor for N-linked glycosylation. Transfers glucose from dolichyl phosphate glucose (Dol-P-Glc) onto the lipid-linked oligosaccharide Glc(1)Man(9)GlcNAc(2)-PP-Dol (By similarity).	same
ALKBH3	The Escherichia coli AlkB protein protects against the cytotoxicity of methylating agents by repair of the specific DNA lesions generated in single-stranded DNA. ALKBH2 (MIM 610602) and ALKBH3 are E. coli AlkB homologs that catalyze the removal of 1-methyladenine and 3-methylcytosine (Duncan et al., 2002 [PubMed 12486230]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	ALKBH3 (AlkB, Alkylation Repair Homolog 3 (E. Coli)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALKBH3 include prostate cancer. Among its related pathways are DNA Repair and DNA Repair. GO annotations related to this gene include L-ascorbic acid binding and DNA-N1-methyladenine dioxygenase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ALKBH2.	Dioxygenase that repairs alkylated DNA containing 1-methyladenine (1meA) and 3-methylcytosine (3meC) by oxidative demethylation. Has a strong preference for single-stranded DNA. Able to process alkylated 3mC within double-stranded regions via its interaction with ASCC3, which promotes DNA unwinding to generate single-stranded substrate needed for ALKHB3. May also act on RNA. Requires molecular oxygen, alpha-ketoglutarate and iron.	same
ALG9	This gene encodes an alpha-1,2-mannosyltransferase enzyme that functions in lipid-linked oligosaccharide assembly. Mutations in this gene result in congenital disorder of glycosylation type Il. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]	ALG9 (ALG9, Alpha-1,2-Mannosyltransferase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALG9 include congenital disorder of glycosylation, type il and bipolar disorder. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein. GO annotations related to this gene include dol-P-Man:Man(8)GlcNAc(2)-PP-Dol alpha-1,2-mannosyltransferase activity and dol-P-Man:Man(6)GlcNAc(2)-PP-Dol alpha-1,2-mannosyltransferase activity.	Catalyzes the transfer of mannose from Dol-P-Man to lipid-linked oligosaccharides.	same
ALKBH2	The Escherichia coli AlkB protein protects against the cytotoxicity of methylating agents by repair of the specific DNA lesions generated in single-stranded DNA. ALKBH2 and ALKBH3 (MIM 610603) are E. coli AlkB homologs that catalyze the removal of 1-methyladenine and 3-methylcytosine (Duncan et al., 2002 [PubMed 12486230]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	ALKBH2 (AlkB, Alkylation Repair Homolog 2 (E. Coli)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are DNA Repair and DNA Repair. GO annotations related to this gene include ferrous iron binding and cytosine C-5 DNA demethylase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ALKBH3.	Dioxygenase that repairs alkylated DNA and RNA containing 1-methyladenine and 3-methylcytosine by oxidative demethylation. Can also repair alkylated DNA containing 1-ethenoadenine (in vitro). Has strong preference for double-stranded DNA. Has low efficiency with single-stranded substrates. Requires molecular oxygen, alpha-ketoglutarate and iron.	same
ALLC	Allantoicase (EC 3.5.3.4) participates in the uric acid degradation pathway. Its enzymatic activity, like that of urate oxidase (MIM 191540), was lost during vertebrate evolution.[supplied by OMIM, Nov 2008]	ALLC (Allantoicase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALLC include denture stomatitis and lymphogranuloma venereum. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Purine metabolism (KEGG). GO annotations related to this gene include allantoicase activity.	The function of this enzyme is unclear as allantoicase activity is not known to exist in mammals	same
ALKBH8	empty	ALKBH8 (AlkB, Alkylation Repair Homolog 8 (E. Coli)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and tRNA (uracil) methyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is KIAA1456.	Catalyzes the methylation of 5-carboxymethyl uridine to 5-methylcarboxymethyl uridine at the wobble position of the anticodon loop in tRNA via its methyltransferase domain (PubMed:20123966, PubMed:20308323). Catalyzes the last step in the formation of 5-methylcarboxymethyl uridine at the wobble position of the anticodon loop in target tRNA (PubMed:20123966, PubMed:20308323). Has a preference for tRNA(Arg) and tRNA(Glu), and does not bind tRNA(Lys)(PubMed:20308323). Binds tRNA and catalyzes the iron and alpha-ketoglutarate dependent hydroxylation of 5-methylcarboxymethyl uridine at the wobble position of the anticodon loop in tRNA via its dioxygenase domain, giving rise to 5-(S)-methoxycarbonylhydroxymethyluridine; has a preference for tRNA(Gly) (PubMed:21285950). Required for normal survival after DNA damage (PubMed:20308323). May inhibit apoptosis and promote cell survival and angiogenesis (PubMed:19293182).	same
ALKBH5	empty	ALKBH5 (AlkB Family Member 5, RNA Demethylase) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include oxidoreductase activity, acting on paired donors, with incorporation or reduction of molecular oxygen, 2-oxoglutarate as one donor, and incorporation of one atom each of oxygen into both donors and oxidative RNA demethylase activity.	Dioxygenase that demethylates RNA by oxidative demethylation: specifically demethylates N(6)-methyladenosine (m6A) RNA, the most prevalent internal modification of messenger RNA (mRNA) in higher eukaryotes (PubMed:23177736, PubMed:24778178, PubMed:24616105, PubMed:24489119). Can also demethylate N(6)-methyladenosine in single-stranded DNA (in vitro) (PubMed:24616105). Requires molecular oxygen, alpha-ketoglutarate and iron (PubMed:21264265, PubMed:23177736, PubMed:24778178, PubMed:24616105, PubMed:24489119). Demethylation of m6A mRNA affects mRNA processing and export (PubMed:23177736). Required for spermatogenesis (By similarity).	same
ALMS1P	empty	ALMS1P (Alstrom Syndrome 1 Pseudogene) is a Pseudogene. Diseases associated with ALMS1P include alstrom syndrome.	empty	same
ALK	This gene encodes a receptor tyrosine kinase, which belongs to the insulin receptor superfamily. This protein comprises an extracellular domain, an hydrophobic stretch corresponding to a single pass transmembrane region, and an intracellular kinase domain. It plays an important role in the development of the brain and exerts its effects on specific neurons in the nervous system. This gene has been found to be rearranged, mutated, or amplified in a series of tumours including anaplastic large cell lymphomas, neuroblastoma, and non-small cell lung cancer. The chromosomal rearrangements are the most common genetic alterations in this gene, which result in creation of multiple fusion genes in tumourigenesis, including ALK (chromosome 2)/EML4 (chromosome 2), ALK/RANBP2 (chromosome 2), ALK/ATIC (chromosome 2), ALK/TFG (chromosome 3), ALK/NPM1 (chromosome 5), ALK/SQSTM1 (chromosome 5), ALK/KIF5B (chromosome 10), ALK/CLTC (chromosome 17), ALK/TPM4 (chromosome 19), and ALK/MSN (chromosome X).[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]	ALK (Anaplastic Lymphoma Receptor Tyrosine Kinase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALK include neuroblastoma 3 and inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor. Among its related pathways are GPCR Pathway and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include protein tyrosine kinase activity and NF-kappaB-inducing kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is LTK.	Neuronal orphan receptor tyrosine kinase that is essentially and transiently expressed in specific regions of the central and peripheral nervous systems and plays an important role in the genesis and differentiation of the nervous system. Transduces signals from ligands at the cell surface, through specific activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway. Phosphorylates almost exclusively at the first tyrosine of the Y-x-x-x-Y-Y motif. Following activation by ligand, ALK induces tyrosine phosphorylation of CBL, FRS2, IRS1 and SHC1, as well as of the MAP kinases MAPK1/ERK2 and MAPK3/ERK1. Acts as a receptor for ligands pleiotrophin (PTN), a secreted growth factor, and midkine (MDK), a PTN-related factor, thus participating in PTN and MDK signal transduction. PTN-binding induces MAPK pathway activation, which is important for the anti-apoptotic signaling of PTN and regulation of cell proliferation. MDK-binding induces phosphorylation of the ALK target insulin receptor substrate (IRS1), activates mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) and PI3-kinase, resulting also in cell proliferation induction. Drives NF-kappa-B activation, probably through IRS1 and the activation of the AKT serine/threonine kinase. Recruitment of IRS1 to activated ALK and the activation of NF-kappa-B are essential for the autocrine growth and survival signaling of MDK.	same
ALOX12	empty	ALOX12 (Arachidonate 12-Lipoxygenase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALOX12 include essential thrombocythemia and atherosclerosis. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include iron ion binding and arachidonate 12-lipoxygenase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ALOX5.	Non-heme iron-containing dioxygenase that catalyzes the stereo-specific peroxidation of free and esterified polyunsaturated fatty acids generating a spectrum of bioactive lipid mediators. Mainly converts arachidonic acid to (12S)-hydroperoxyeicosatetraenoic acid/(12S)-HPETE but can also metabolize linoleic acid. Has a dual activity since it also converts leukotriene A4/LTA4 into both the bioactive lipoxin A4/LXA4 and lipoxin B4/LXB4. Through the production of specific bioactive lipids like (12S)-HPETE it regulates different biological processes including platelet activation. It also probably positively regulates angiogenesis through regulation of the expression of the vascular endothelial growth factor. Plays a role in apoptotic process, promoting the survival of vascular smooth muscle cells for instance. May also play a role in the control of cell migration and proliferation.	same
ALG14	This gene is a member of the glycosyltransferase 1 family. The encoded protein and ALG13 are thought to be subunits of UDP-GlcNAc transferase, which catalyzes the first two committed steps in endoplasmic reticulum N-linked glycosylation. Mutations in this gene have been linked to congenital myasthenic syndrome (CMSWTA). Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2015]	ALG14 (ALG14, UDP-N-Acetylglucosaminyltransferase Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALG14 include congenital myasthenic syndromes with glycosylation defect and congenital myasthenic syndrome. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein.	May be involved in protein N-glycosylation. May play a role in the second step of the dolichol-linked oligosaccharide pathway. May anchor the catalytic subunit ALG13 to the ER.	same
ALG1L2	empty	ALG1L2 (ALG1, Chitobiosyldiphosphodolichol Beta-Mannosyltransferase-Like 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include transferase activity, transferring glycosyl groups.	Putative glycosyltransferase.	same
ALOX12P2	empty	ALOX12P2 (Arachidonate 12-Lipoxygenase Pseudogene 2) is a Pseudogene.	empty	same
ALMS1	This gene encodes a protein containing a large tandem-repeat domain as well as additional low complexity regions. The encoded protein functions in microtubule organization, particularly in the formation and maintanance of cilia. Mutations in this gene cause Alstrom syndrome. There is a pseudogene for this gene located adjacent in the same region of chromosome 2. Alternative splice variants have been described but their full length nature has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2014]	ALMS1 (Alstrom Syndrome Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALMS1 include alstrom syndrome. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. An important paralog of this gene is C10orf90.	Involved in PCM1-dependent intracellular transport. Required, directly or indirectly, for the localization of NCAPD2 to the proximal ends of centrioles. Required for proper formation and/or maintenance of primary cilia (PC), microtubule-based structures that protrude from the surface of epithelial cells.	same
ALOX15B	This gene encodes a member of the lipoxygenase family of structurally related nonheme iron dioxygenases involved in the production of fatty acid hydroperoxides. The encoded protein converts arachidonic acid exclusively to 15S-hydroperoxyeicosatetraenoic acid, while metabolizing linoleic acid less effectively. This gene is located in a cluster of related genes and a pseudogene that spans approximately 100 kilobases on the short arm of chromosome 17. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ALOX15B (Arachidonate 15-Lipoxygenase, Type B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALOX15B include prostate adenocarcinoma and autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include iron ion binding and linoleate 13S-lipoxygenase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ALOX12.	Non-heme iron-containing dioxygenase that catalyzes the stereo-specific peroxidation of free and esterified polyunsaturated fatty acids generating a spectrum of bioactive lipid mediators. Converts arachidonic acid to 15S-hydroperoxyeicosatetraenoic acid/(15S)-HPETE. Also acts on linoleic acid to produce 13-hydroxyoctadecadienoic acid/13-HPODE. Has no detectable 8S-lipoxygenase activity but reacts with (8S)-HPETE to produce (8S,15S)-diHPETE. May regulate progression through the cell cycle and cell proliferation. May also regulate cytokine secretion by macrophages and therefore play a role in the immune response. May also regulate macrophage differentiation into proatherogenic foam cells.	same
ALOXE3	This gene is a member of the lipoxygenase family, which are catabolized by arachidonic acid-derived compounds. The encoded enzyme is a hydroperoxide isomerase that synthesizes a unique type of epoxy alcohol (8R-hydroxy-11R,12R-epoxyeicosa-5Z,9E,14Z-trienoic acid) from 12R-hydroperoxyeicosatetraenoic acid (12R-HPETE). This epoxy alcohol can activate the the nuclear receptor peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha), which is implicated in epidermal differentiation. Loss of function of the enzyme encoded by this gene results in ichthyosis, implicating the function of this gene in the differentiation of human skin. This gene is part of a cluster of lipoxygenase genes on 17p13.1. Mutations in this gene result in nonbullous congenital ichthyosiform erythroderma (NCIE). Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]	ALOXE3 (Arachidonate Lipoxygenase 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALOXE3 include ichthyosis, congenital, autosomal recessive 3 and aloxe3-related autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis. Among its related pathways are Prostaglandin 2 biosynthesis and metabolism FM. GO annotations related to this gene include iron ion binding and hepoxilin A3 synthase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ALOX12.	Non-heme iron-containing lipoxygenase which is atypical in that it displays a prominent hydroperoxide isomerase activity and a reduced dioxygenase activity compared to other lipoxygenases. The hydroperoxide isomerase activity catalyzes the isomerization of hydroperoxides, derived from arachidonic and linoleic acid by ALOX12B, into hepoxilin-type epoxyalcohols. The dioxygenase activity requires a step of activation of the enzyme by molecular oxygen. In presence of oxygen, oxygenates polyunsaturated fatty acids, including arachidonic acid, to produce fatty acid hydroperoxides. In the skin, acts downstream of ALOX12B on the linoleate moiety of esterified omega-hydroxyacyl-sphingosine (EOS) ceramides to produce an epoxy-ketone derivative, a crucial step in the conjugation of omega-hydroxyceramide to membrane proteins. Therefore plays a crucial role in the synthesis of corneocytes lipid envelope and the establishment of the skin barrier to water loss. In parallel, it may have a signaling function in barrier formation through the production of hepoxilins metabolites. Plays also a role in adipocyte differentiation through hepoxilin A3 and hepoxilin B3 production which in turn activate PPARG. Through the production of hepoxilins in the spinal cord, it may regulate inflammatory tactile allodynia.	same
ALPK1	This gene encodes an alpha kinase. Mice which were homozygous for disrupted copies of this gene exhibited coordination defects (PMID: 21208416). Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	ALPK1 (Alpha-Kinase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is EEF2K.	Kinase that recognizes phosphorylation sites in which the surrounding peptides have an alpha-helical conformation	same
ALPK3	empty	ALPK3 (Alpha-Kinase 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Coregulation of Androgen receptor activity. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ALPK2.	Kinase that recognizes phosphorylation sites in which the surrounding peptides have an alpha-helical conformation. Plays a role in cardiomyocyte differentiation (By similarity).	same
ALPK2	empty	ALPK2 (Alpha-Kinase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ALPK3.	Kinase that recognizes phosphorylation sites in which the surrounding peptides have an alpha-helical conformation	same
ALKBH7	empty	ALKBH7 (AlkB, Alkylation Repair Homolog 7 (E. Coli)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include dioxygenase activity.	May function as protein hydroxylase; can catalyze auto-hydroxylation at Leu-110 (in vitro), but this activity may be due to the absence of the true substrate (PubMed:25122757). Required to induce programmed necrosis in response to DNA damage caused by cytotoxic alkylating agents. Acts by triggering the collapse of mitochondrial membrane potential and loss of mitochondrial function that leads to energy depletion and cell death (PubMed:23666923). ALKBH7-mediated necrosis is probably required to prevent the accumulation of cells with DNA damage (PubMed:23666923). Does not display DNA demethylase activity (PubMed:23666923). Involved in fatty acid metabolism (By similarity).	same
ALS2CL	empty	ALS2CL (ALS2 C-Terminal Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALS2CL include blepharitis. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and Rho guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is RSPH1.	Acts as a guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) for Rab5 GTPase. Regulates the ALS2-mediated endosome dynamics.	same
ALKBH6	empty	ALKBH6 (AlkB, Alkylation Repair Homolog 6 (E. Coli)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include oxidoreductase activity, acting on paired donors, with incorporation or reduction of molecular oxygen, 2-oxoglutarate as one donor, and incorporation of one atom each of oxygen into both donors.	Probable dioxygenase that requires molecular oxygen, alpha-ketoglutarate and iron.	same
ALS2CR12	empty	ALS2CR12 (Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis 2 (Juvenile) Chromosome Region, Candidate 12) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
ALS2CR4	The protein encoded by this gene is a tetraspanin protein that is thought to be involved in WNT signaling. Defects in this gene are a cause of Joubert syndrome-14. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]	TMEM237 (Transmembrane Protein 237) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with TMEM237 include joubert syndrome 14 and tmem237-related joubert syndrome.	Component of the transition zone in primary cilia. Required for ciliogenesis.	diff
ALOX15	empty	ALOX15 (Arachidonate 15-Lipoxygenase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALOX15 include prostate adenocarcinoma and atherosclerosis. Among its related pathways are Apoptotic Pathways in Synovial Fibroblasts and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include iron ion binding and arachidonate 15-lipoxygenase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ALOX12.	Non-heme iron-containing dioxygenase that catalyzes the stereo-specific peroxidation of free and esterified polyunsaturated fatty acids generating a spectrum of bioactive lipid mediators. Converts arachidonic acid into 12-hydroperoxyeicosatetraenoic acid/12-HPETE and 15-hydroperoxyeicosatetraenoic acid/15-HPETE. Also converts linoleic acid to 13-hydroperoxyoctadecadienoic acid. May also act on (12S)-hydroperoxyeicosatetraenoic acid/(12S)-HPETE to produce hepoxilin A3. Probably plays an important role in the immune and inflammatory responses. Through the oxygenation of membrane-bound phosphatidylethanolamine in macrophages may favor clearance of apoptotic cells during inflammation by resident macrophages and prevent an autoimmune response associated with the clearance of apoptotic cells by inflammatory monocytes. In parallel, may regulate actin polymerization which is crucial for several biological processes, including macrophage function. May also regulate macrophage function through regulation of the peroxisome proliferator activated receptor signaling pathway. Finally, it is also involved in the cellular response to IL13/interleukin-13. In addition to its role in the immune and inflammatory responses, may play a role in epithelial wound healing in the cornea maybe through production of lipoxin A4. May also play a role in endoplasmic reticulum stress response and the regulation of bone mass.	same
ALPI	There are at least four distinct but related alkaline phosphatases: intestinal, placental, placental-like, and liver/bone/kidney (tissue non-specific). The intestinal alkaline phosphatase gene encodes a digestive brush-border enzyme. This enzyme is a component of the gut mucosal defense system and is thought to function in the detoxification of lipopolysaccharide, and in the prevention of bacterial translocation in the gut. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2014]	ALPI (Alkaline Phosphatase, Intestinal) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALPI include soft palate cancer and gastrointestinal system disease. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Nicotinate and nicotinamide metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include alkaline phosphatase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ALPL.	empty	same
ALOX5	This gene encodes a member of the lipoxygenase gene family and plays a dual role in the synthesis of leukotrienes from arachidonic acid. The encoded protein, which is expressed specifically in bone marrow-derived cells, catalyzes the conversion of arachidonic acid to 5(S)-hydroperoxy-6-trans-8,11,14-cis-eicosatetraenoic acid, and further to the allylic epoxide 5(S)-trans-7,9-trans-11,14-cis-eicosatetrenoic acid (leukotriene A4). Leukotrienes are important mediators of a number of inflammatory and allergic conditions. Mutations in the promoter region of this gene lead to a diminished response to antileukotriene drugs used in the treatment of asthma and may also be associated with atherosclerosis and several cancers. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]	ALOX5 (Arachidonate 5-Lipoxygenase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALOX5 include asthma and atherosclerosis. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include iron ion binding and arachidonate 5-lipoxygenase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ALOX12.	Catalyzes the first step in leukotriene biosynthesis, and thereby plays a role in inflammatory processes.	same
ALS2CR11	empty	ALS2CR11 (Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis 2 (Juvenile) Chromosome Region, Candidate 11) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
ALS2CR8	empty	CARF (Calcium Responsive Transcription Factor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CARF include lateral sclerosis. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity.	Acts as a transcriptional activator that mediates the calcium- and neuron-selective induction of BDNF exon III transcription. Binds to the consensus calcium-response element CaRE1 5-CTATTTCGAG-3 sequence.	diff
ALPPL2	There are at least four distinct but related alkaline phosphatases: intestinal, placental, placental-like, and liver/bone/kidney (tissue non-specific). The product of this gene is a membrane bound glycosylated enzyme, localized to testis, thymus and certain germ cell tumors, that is closely related to both the placental and intestinal forms of alkaline phosphatase. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ALPPL2 (Alkaline Phosphatase, Placental-Like 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALPPL2 include seminoma and complete androgen insensitivity syndrome. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Nicotinate and nicotinamide metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include alkaline phosphatase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ALPL.	empty	same
ALPP	The protein encoded by this gene is an alkaline phosphatase, a metalloenzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of phosphoric acid monoesters. It belongs to a multigene family composed of four alkaline phosphatase isoenzymes. The enzyme functions as a homodimer and has a catalytic site containing one magnesium and two zinc ions, which are required for its enzymatic function. The protein is primarily expressed in placental and endometrial tissue; however, strong ectopic expression has been detected in ovarian adenocarcinoma, serous cystadenocarcinoma, and other ovarian cancer cells. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2015]	ALPP (Alkaline Phosphatase, Placental) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALPP include hypophosphatasia, infantile and clear cell adenoma. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Nicotinate and nicotinamide metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include alkaline phosphatase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ALPL.	empty	same
ALX3	This gene encodes a nuclear protein with a homeobox DNA-binding domain that functions as a transcriptional regulator involved in cell-type differentiation and development. Preferential methylation of this gene's promoter is associated with advanced-stage neuroblastoma tumors. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ALX3 (ALX Homeobox 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALX3 include frontonasal dysplasia 1 and basal encephalocele. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and sequence-specific DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is PHOX2B.	Transcriptional regulator with a possible role in patterning of mesoderm during development.	same
ALPL	There are at least four distinct but related alkaline phosphatases: intestinal, placental, placental-like, and liver/bone/kidney (tissue non-specific). The first three are located together on chromosome 2, while the tissue non-specific form is located on chromosome 1. The product of this gene is a membrane bound glycosylated enzyme that is not expressed in any particular tissue and is, therefore, referred to as the tissue-nonspecific form of the enzyme. The exact physiological function of the alkaline phosphatases is not known. A proposed function of this form of the enzyme is matrix mineralization; however, mice that lack a functional form of this enzyme show normal skeletal development. This enzyme has been linked directly to hypophosphatasia, a disorder that is characterized by hypercalcemia and includes skeletal defects. The character of this disorder can vary, however, depending on the specific mutation since this determines age of onset and severity of symptoms. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]	ALPL (Alkaline Phosphatase, Liver/Bone/Kidney) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALPL include hypophosphatasia, infantile and hypophosphatasia, childhood. Among its related pathways are Endochondral Ossification and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include alkaline phosphatase activity and pyrophosphatase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ALPP.	This isozyme may play a role in skeletal mineralization	same
ALS2	The protein encoded by this gene contains an ATS1/RCC1-like domain, a RhoGEF domain, and a vacuolar protein sorting 9 (VPS9) domain, all of which are guanine-nucleotide exchange factors that activate members of the Ras superfamily of GTPases. The protein functions as a guanine nucleotide exchange factor for the small GTPase RAB5. The protein localizes with RAB5 on early endosomal compartments, and functions as a modulator for endosomal dynamics. Mutations in this gene result in several forms of juvenile lateral sclerosis and infantile-onset ascending spastic paralysis. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]	ALS2 (Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis 2 (Juvenile)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALS2 include amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 2, juvenile and primary lateral sclerosis, juvenile. Among its related pathways are Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is RSPH1.	May act as a GTPase regulator. Controls survival and growth of spinal motoneurons (By similarity).	same
ALOX5AP	This gene encodes a protein which, with 5-lipoxygenase, is required for leukotriene synthesis. Leukotrienes are arachidonic acid metabolites which have been implicated in various types of inflammatory responses, including asthma, arthritis and psoriasis. This protein localizes to the plasma membrane. Inhibitors of its function impede translocation of 5-lipoxygenase from the cytoplasm to the cell membrane and inhibit 5-lipoxygenase activation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]	ALOX5AP (Arachidonate 5-Lipoxygenase-Activating Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALOX5AP include stroke, ischemic and psoriasis. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and enzyme binding. An important paralog of this gene is MGST2.	Required for leukotriene biosynthesis by ALOX5 (5-lipoxygenase). Anchors ALOX5 to the membrane. Binds arachidonic acid, and could play an essential role in the transfer of arachidonic acid to ALOX5. Binds to MK-886, a compound that blocks the biosynthesis of leukotrienes.	same
ALX4	This gene encodes a paired-like homeodomain transcription factor expressed in the mesenchyme of developing bones, limbs, hair, teeth, and mammary tissue. Mutations in this gene cause parietal foramina 2 (PFM2); an autosomal dominant disease characterized by deficient ossification of the parietal bones. Mutations in this gene also cause a form of frontonasal dysplasia with alopecia and hypogonadism; suggesting a role for this gene in craniofacial development, mesenchymal-epithelial communication, and hair follicle development. Deletion of a segment of chromosome 11 containing this gene, del(11)(p11p12), causes Potocki-Shaffer syndrome (PSS); a syndrome characterized by craniofacial anomalies, mental retardation, multiple exostoses, and genital abnormalities in males. In mouse, this gene has been shown to use dual translation initiation sites located 16 codons apart. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]	ALX4 (ALX Homeobox 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALX4 include parietal foramina 2 and frontonasal dysplasia 2. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and protein heterodimerization activity. An important paralog of this gene is PHOX2B.	Transcription factor involved in skull and limb development. Plays an essential role in craniofacial development, skin and hair follicle development.	same
ALOX12B	This gene encodes an enzyme involved in the converstion of arachidonic acid to 12R-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid. Mutations in this gene are associated with nonbullous congenital ichthyosiform erythroderma. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ALOX12B (Arachidonate 12-Lipoxygenase, 12R Type) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALOX12B include ichthyosis, congenital, autosomal recessive 2 and congenital ichthyosiform erythroderma. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include iron ion binding and arachidonate 12-lipoxygenase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ALOX12.	Non-heme iron-containing dioxygenase that catalyzes the stereo-specific peroxidation of free and esterified polyunsaturated fatty acids generating a spectrum of bioactive lipid mediators. Mainly converts arachidonic acid to (12R)-hydroperoxyeicosatetraenoic acid/(12R)-HPETE and minor stereoisomers. In the skin, acts upstream of ALOXE3 on the lineolate moiety of esterified omega-hydroxyacyl-sphingosine (EOS) ceramides to produce an epoxy-ketone derivative, a crucial step in the conjugation of omega-hydroxyceramide to membrane proteins. Therefore plays a crucial role in the synthesis of corneocytes lipid envelope and the establishment of the skin barrier to water loss. May also play a role in the regulation of the expression of airway mucins.	same
AMACR	This gene encodes a racemase. The encoded enzyme interconverts pristanoyl-CoA and C27-bile acylCoAs between their (R)- and (S)-stereoisomers. The conversion to the (S)-stereoisomers is necessary for degradation of these substrates by peroxisomal beta-oxidation. Encoded proteins from this locus localize to both mitochondria and peroxisomes. Mutations in this gene may be associated with adult-onset sensorimotor neuropathy, pigmentary retinopathy, and adrenomyeloneuropathy due to defects in bile acid synthesis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. Read-through transcription also exists between this gene and the upstream neighboring C1QTNF3 (C1q and tumor necrosis factor related protein 3) gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]	AMACR (Alpha-Methylacyl-CoA Racemase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AMACR include alpha-methylacyl-coa racemase deficiency and bile acid synthesis defect, congenital, 4. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and alpha-methylacyl-CoA racemase activity.	Racemization of 2-methyl-branched fatty acid CoA esters. Responsible for the conversion of pristanoyl-CoA and C27-bile acyl-CoAs to their (S)-stereoisomers	same
ALX1	The specific function of this gene has yet to be determined in humans; however, in rodents, it is necessary for survival of the forebrain mesenchyme and may also be involved in development of the cervix. Mutations in the mouse gene lead to neural tube defects such as acrania and meroanencephaly. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ALX1 (ALX Homeobox 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ALX1 include frontonasal dysplasia 3 and frontonasal dysplasia-severe microphthalmia-severe facial clefting syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and protein heterodimerization activity. An important paralog of this gene is PHOX2B.	Transcriptional activator that acts at a palindromic recognition sequence to enhance the activity of the SV40 and TK promoters. Functions as a repressor with the prolactin promoter in vivo. May play a role in chondrocyte differentiation and may also influence cervix development.	same
AMBN	This gene encodes the nonamelogenin enamel matrix protein ameloblastin. The encoded protein may be important in enamel matrix formation and mineralization. This gene is located in the calcium-binding phosphoprotein gene cluster on chromosome 4. Mutations in this gene may be associated with dentinogenesis imperfect and autosomal dominant amylogenesis imperfect. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	AMBN (Ameloblastin (Enamel Matrix Protein)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AMBN include gamma heavy chain disease and calcifying epithelial odontogenic tumor. GO annotations related to this gene include growth factor activity and structural constituent of tooth enamel.	Involved in the mineralization and structural organization of enamel	same
AMBP	This gene encodes a complex glycoprotein secreted in plasma. The precursor is proteolytically processed into distinct functioning proteins: alpha-1-microglobulin, which belongs to the superfamily of lipocalin transport proteins and may play a role in the regulation of inflammatory processes, and bikunin, which is a urinary trypsin inhibitor belonging to the superfamily of Kunitz-type protease inhibitors and plays an important role in many physiological and pathological processes. This gene is located on chromosome 9 in a cluster of lipocalin genes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AMBP (Alpha-1-Microglobulin/Bikunin Precursor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AMBP include acute kidney failure and hepatitis e. Among its related pathways are Cell adhesion_Cell-matrix glycoconjugates and Binding and Uptake of Ligands by Scavenger Receptors. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and serine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is TFPI.	Inter-alpha-trypsin inhibitor inhibits trypsin, plasmin, and lysosomal granulocytic elastase. Inhibits calcium oxalate crystallization.	same
AMAC1L2	This gene is intronless and probably arose from retrotransposition of a similar gene. It has high sequence similarity to the gene encoding acyl-malonyl condensing enzyme on chromosome 17. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	SLC35G5 (Solute Carrier Family 35, Member G5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with SLC35G5 include keratolytic winter erythema. An important paralog of this gene is SLC35G2.	empty	diff
AMDHD2	empty	AMDHD2 (Amidohydrolase Domain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Amino sugar and nucleotide sugar metabolism and Amino sugar and nucleotide sugar metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include N-acetylglucosamine-6-phosphate deacetylase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000259784.	Hydrolyzes the N-glycolyl group from N-glycolylglucosamine 6-phosphate (GlcNGc-6-P) in the N-glycolylneuraminic acid (Neu5Gc) degradation pathway. Although human is not able to catalyze formation of Neu5Gc due to the inactive CMAHP enzyme, Neu5Gc is present in food and must be degraded.	same
AMBRA1	empty	AMBRA1 (Autophagy/Beclin-1 Regulator 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Neuroscience and Senescence and Autophagy.	Regulates autophagy and development of the nervous system. Involved in autophagy in controlling protein turnover during neuronal development, and in regulating normal cell survival and proliferation (By similarity).	same
AMH	Anti-Mullerian hormone is a member of the transforming growth factor-beta gene family which mediates male sexual differentiation. Anti-Mullerian hormone causes the regression of Mullerian ducts which would otherwise differentiate into the uterus and fallopian tubes. Some mutations in the anti-Mullerian hormone result in persistent Mullerian duct syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AMH (Anti-Mullerian Hormone) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AMH include persistent mullerian duct syndrome and intermediate coronary syndrome. Among its related pathways are Hippo signaling pathway and Spinal Cord Injury. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and hormone activity.	This glycoprotein, produced by the Sertoli cells of the testis, causes regression of the Muellerian duct. It is also able to inhibit the growth of tumors derived from tissues of Muellerian duct origin	same
AMIGO1	empty	AMIGO1 (Adhesion Molecule With Ig-Like Domain 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is AMIGO2.	Promotes growth and fasciculation of neurites from cultured hippocampal neurons. May be involved in fasciculation as well as myelination of developing neural axons. May have a role in regeneration as well as neural plasticity in the adult nervous system. May mediate homophilic as well as heterophilic cell-cell interaction and contribute to signal transduction through its intracellular domain (By similarity).	same
AMIGO3	empty	AMIGO3 (Adhesion Molecule With Ig-Like Domain 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AMIGO3 include ulcerative colitis. An important paralog of this gene is AMIGO2.	May mediate heterophilic cell-cell interaction. May contribute to signal transduction through its intracellular domain (By similarity).	same
AMICA1	empty	AMICA1 (Adhesion Molecule, Interacts With CXADR Antigen 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Hemostasis. GO annotations related to this gene include cell adhesion molecule binding.	Transmembrane protein of the plasma membrane of leukocytes that control their migration and activation through interaction with CXADR, a plasma membrane receptor found on adjacent epithelial and endothelial cells. The interaction between both receptors mediates the activation of gamma-delta T-cells, a subpopulation of T-cells residing in epithelia and involved in tissue homeostasis and repair. Upon epithelial CXADR-binding, AMICA1 induces downstream cell signaling events in gamma-delta T-cells through PI3-kinase and MAP kinases. It results in proliferation and production of cytokines and growth factors by T-cells that in turn stimulate epithelial tissues repair. It also controls the transmigration of leukocytes within epithelial and endothelial tissues through adhesive interactions with epithelial and endothelial CXADR.	same
AMIGO2	empty	AMIGO2 (Adhesion Molecule With Ig-Like Domain 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AMIGO2 include gastric adenocarcinoma and legg-calve-perthes disease. An important paralog of this gene is AMIGO1.	Required for depolarization-dependent survival of cultured cerebellar granule neurons. May mediate homophilic as well as heterophilic cell-cell interaction with AMIGO1 or AMIGO3. May contribute to signal transduction through its intracellular domain. May be required for tumorigenesis of a subset of gastric adenocarcinomas	same
AMAC1	empty	empty	empty	same
AMMECR1	The exact function of this gene is not known, however, submicroscopic deletion of the X chromosome including this gene, COL4A5, and FACL4 genes, result in a contiguous gene deletion syndrome, the AMME complex (Alport syndrome, mental retardation, midface hypoplasia, and elliptocytosis). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]	AMMECR1 (Alport Syndrome, Mental Retardation, Midface Hypoplasia And Elliptocytosis Chromosomal Region Gene 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AMMECR1 include alport syndrome - intellectual disability - midface hypoplasia - elliptocytosis and alport syndrome, mental retardation, midface hypoplasia, and elliptocytosis. An important paralog of this gene is AMMECR1L.	empty	same
AMHR2	This gene encodes the receptor for the anti-Mullerian hormone (AMH) which, in addition to testosterone, results in male sex differentiation. AMH and testosterone are produced in the testes by different cells and have different effects. Testosterone promotes the development of male genitalia while the binding of AMH to the encoded receptor prevents the development of the mullerian ducts into uterus and Fallopian tubes. Mutations in this gene are associated with persistent Mullerian duct syndrome type II. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]	AMHR2 (Anti-Mullerian Hormone Receptor, Type II) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AMHR2 include persistent mullerian duct syndrome, type ii and persistent mullerian duct syndrome. Among its related pathways are TGF-beta/Smad Signaling and PEDF Induced Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor activity and transforming growth factor beta receptor activity, type II. An important paralog of this gene is TGFBR2.	On ligand binding, forms a receptor complex consisting of two type II and two type I transmembrane serine/threonine kinases. Type II receptors phosphorylate and activate type I receptors which autophosphorylate, then bind and activate SMAD transcriptional regulators. Receptor for anti-Muellerian hormone	same
AMN1	empty	AMN1 (Antagonist Of Mitotic Exit Network 1 Homolog (S. Cerevisiae)) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
AMN	The protein encoded by this gene is a type I transmembrane protein. It is thought to modulate bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) receptor function by serving as an accessory or coreceptor, and thus facilitates or hinders BMP binding. It is known that the mouse AMN gene is expressed in the extraembryonic visceral endoderm layer during gastrulation, but it is found to be mutated in amnionless mouse. The encoded protein has sequence similarity to short gastrulation (Sog) and procollagen IIA proteins in Drosophila. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AMN (Amnion Associated Transmembrane Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AMN include megaloblastic anemia and adrenoleukodystrophy. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism.	Necessary for efficient absorption of vitamin B12. May direct the production of trunk mesoderm during development by modulating a bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling pathway in the underlying visceral endoderm (By similarity).	same
AMOTL1	The protein encoded by this gene is a peripheral membrane protein that is a component of tight junctions or TJs. TJs form an apical junctional structure and act to control paracellular permeability and maintain cell polarity. This protein is related to angiomotin, an angiostatin binding protein that regulates endothelial cell migration and capillary formation. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]	AMOTL1 (Angiomotin Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Tight junction. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is AMOT.	Inhibits the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway, probably by recruiting CTNNB1 to recycling endosomes and hence preventing its translocation to the nucleus.	same
AMDHD1	empty	AMDHD1 (Amidohydrolase Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include imidazolonepropionase activity.	empty	same
AMELX	This gene encodes a member of the amelogenin family of extracellular matrix proteins. Amelogenins are involved in biomineralization during tooth enamel development. Mutations in this gene cause X-linked amelogenesis imperfecta. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AMELX (Amelogenin, X-Linked) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AMELX include amelogenesis imperfecta, type 1e and amelogenesis imperfecta. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and structural constituent of tooth enamel. An important paralog of this gene is AMELY.	Plays a role in biomineralization. Seems to regulate the formation of crystallites during the secretory stage of tooth enamel development. Thought to play a major role in the structural organization and mineralization of developing enamel	same
AMPD1	Adenosine monophosphate deaminase 1 catalyzes the deamination of AMP to IMP in skeletal muscle and plays an important role in the purine nucleotide cycle. Two other genes have been identified, AMPD2 and AMPD3, for the liver- and erythocyte-specific isoforms, respectively. Deficiency of the muscle-specific enzyme is apparently a common cause of exercise-induced myopathy and probably the most common cause of metabolic myopathy in the human. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified in this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]	AMPD1 (Adenosine Monophosphate Deaminase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AMPD1 include myopathy due to myoadenylate deaminase deficiency and adenosine monophosphate deaminase 1 deficiency. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include myosin heavy chain binding and AMP deaminase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AMPD2.	AMP deaminase plays a critical role in energy metabolism	same
AMOTL2	Angiomotin is a protein that binds angiostatin, a circulating inhibitor of the formation of new blood vessels (angiogenesis). Angiomotin mediates angiostatin inhibition of endothelial cell migration and tube formation in vitro. The protein encoded by this gene is related to angiomotin and is a member of the motin protein family. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants of this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]	AMOTL2 (Angiomotin Like 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by Hippo. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is AMOT.	Regulates the translocation of phosphorylated SRC to peripheral cell-matrix adhesion sites. Required for proper architecture of actin filaments. Inhibits the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway, probably by recruiting CTNNB1 to recycling endosomes and hence preventing its translocation to the nucleus. Participates in angiogenesis. May play a role in the polarity, proliferation and migration of endothelial cells. Selectively promotes FGF-induced MAPK activation through SRC.	same
AMFR	This locus encodes a glycosylated transmembrane receptor. Its ligand, autocrine motility factor, is a tumor motility-stimulating protein secreted by tumor cells. The encoded receptor is also a member of the E3 ubiquitin ligase family of proteins. It catalyzes ubiquitination and endoplasmic reticulum-associated degradation of specific proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]	AMFR (Autocrine Motility Factor Receptor, E3 Ubiquitin Protein Ligase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AMFR include colorectal cancer. Among its related pathways are Regulation of Cholesterol Biosynthesis by SREBP (SREBF) and Protein Stability. GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin-protein transferase activity and receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is RNF145.	E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase that mediates the polyubiquitination of a number of proteins such as CD3D, CYP3A4, CFTR and APOB for proteasomal degradation. Component of a VCP/p97-AMFR/gp78 complex that participates in the final step of endoplasmic reticulum-associated degradation (ERAD). The VCP/p97-AMFR/gp78 complex is involved in the sterol-accelerated ERAD degradation of HMGCR through binding to the HMGCR-INSIG complex at the ER membrane and initiating ubiquitination of HMGCR. The ubiquitinated HMGCR is then released from the ER by the complex into the cytosol for subsequent destruction. Also acts as a scaffold protein to assemble a complex that couples ubiquitination, retranslocation and deglycosylation. Mediates tumor invasion and metastasis as a receptor for the GPI/autocrine motility factor.	same
AMTN	The mineralized portions of teeth, the dentin and enamel, are formed by mesenchyme-derived odontoblasts and epithelium-derived ameloblasts, respectively. As ameloblasts differentiate, they deposit specific proteins necessary for enamel formation, including amelogenin (AMELX; MIM 300391), enamelin (ENAM; MIM 606585), and ameloblastin (AMBN; MIM 601259), in the organic enamel matrix. Amelotin is specifically expressed in maturation-stage ameloblasts (Iwasaki et al., 2005 [PubMed 16304441]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	AMTN (Amelotin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AMTN include exotropia and dental fluorosis.	Is a promoter of calcium phosphate mineralization, playing a critical role in the formation of the compact, mineralized, aprismatic enamel surface layer during the maturation stage of amelogenesis.	same
AMPD2	The protein encoded by this gene is important in purine metabolism by converting AMP to IMP. The encoded protein, which acts as a homotetramer, is one of three AMP deaminases found in mammals. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]	AMPD2 (Adenosine Monophosphate Deaminase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AMPD2 include pontocerebellar hypoplasia, type 9 and spastic paraplegia 63. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include AMP deaminase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AMPD3.	AMP deaminase plays a critical role in energy metabolism. Catalyzes the deamination of AMP to IMP and plays an important role in the purine nucleotide cycle.	same
AMPH	This gene encodes a protein associated with the cytoplasmic surface of synaptic vesicles. A subset of patients with stiff-man syndrome who were also affected by breast cancer are positive for autoantibodies against this protein. Alternate splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms. Additional splice variants have been described, but their full length sequences have not been determined. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome 11.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]	AMPH (Amphiphysin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AMPH include retinitis pigmentosa 9 and transverse myelitis. Among its related pathways are Fc gamma R-mediated phagocytosis and Internalization of ErbB1. An important paralog of this gene is BIN1.	May participate in mechanisms of regulated exocytosis in synapses and certain endocrine cell types. May control the properties of the membrane associated cytoskeleton	same
AMPD3	This gene encodes a member of the AMP deaminase gene family. The encoded protein is a highly regulated enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolytic deamination of adenosine monophosphate to inosine monophosphate, a branch point in the adenylate catabolic pathway. This gene encodes the erythrocyte (E) isoforms, whereas other family members encode isoforms that predominate in muscle (M) and liver (L) cells. Mutations in this gene lead to the clinically asymptomatic, autosomal recessive condition erythrocyte AMP deaminase deficiency. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms of this gene have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AMPD3 (Adenosine Monophosphate Deaminase 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AMPD3 include erythrocyte amp deaminase deficiency and adenosine monophosphate deaminase deficiency. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include AMP deaminase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AMPD2.	AMP deaminase plays a critical role in energy metabolism	same
AMMECR1L	empty	AMMECR1L (AMMECR1-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is AMMECR1.	empty	same
AMY1A	Amylases are secreted proteins that hydrolyze 1,4-alpha-glucoside bonds in oligosaccharides and polysaccharides, and thus catalyze the first step in digestion of dietary starch and glycogen. The human genome has a cluster of several amylase genes that are expressed at high levels in either salivary gland or pancreas. This gene encodes an amylase isoenzyme produced by the salivary gland. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AMY1A (Amylase, Alpha 1A (Salivary)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. An important paralog of this gene is AMY2B.	empty	same
AMZ2P1	empty	AMZ2P1 (Archaelysin Family Metallopeptidase 2 Pseudogene 1) is a Pseudogene.	empty	same
AMT	This gene encodes one of four critical components of the glycine cleavage system. Mutations in this gene have been associated with glycine encephalopathy. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]	AMT (Aminomethyltransferase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AMT include glycine encephalopathy and amt-related glycine encephalopathy. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Glycine, serine and threonine metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include aminomethyltransferase activity and transaminase activity.	The glycine cleavage system catalyzes the degradation of glycine	same
ANAPC10	ANAPC10 is a core subunit of the anaphase-promoting complex (APC), or cyclosome, a ubiquitin protein ligase that is essential for progression through the cell cycle. APC initiates sister chromatid separation by ubiquitinating the anaphase inhibitor securin (PTTG1; MIM 604147) and triggers exit from mitosis by ubiquitinating cyclin B (CCNB1; MIM 123836), the activating subunit of cyclin-dependent kinase-1 (CDK1; MIM 116940) (summary by Wendt et al., 2001 [PubMed 11524682]).[supplied by OMIM, Feb 2011]	ANAPC10 (Anaphase Promoting Complex Subunit 10) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and PAK Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin-protein transferase activity.	Component of the anaphase promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C), a cell cycle-regulated E3 ubiquitin ligase that controls progression through mitosis and the G1 phase of the cell cycle. The APC/C complex acts by mediating ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of target proteins: it mainly mediates the formation of Lys-11-linked polyubiquitin chains and, to a lower extent, the formation of Lys-48- and Lys-63-linked polyubiquitin chains.	same
AMZ1	empty	AMZ1 (Archaelysin Family Metallopeptidase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include metallopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AMZ2.	Zinc metalloprotease. Exhibits aminopeptidase activity against neurogranin in vitro. Does not hydrolyze angiotensin-2.	same
AMOT	This gene belongs to the motin family of angiostatin binding proteins characterized by conserved coiled-coil domains and C-terminal PDZ binding motifs. The encoded protein is expressed predominantly in endothelial cells of capillaries as well as larger vessels of the placenta where it may mediate the inhibitory effect of angiostatin on tube formation and the migration of endothelial cells toward growth factors during the formation of new blood vessels. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AMOT (Angiomotin) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Hippo signaling pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor activity and angiostatin binding. An important paralog of this gene is AMOTL1.	Plays a central role in tight junction maintenance via the complex formed with ARHGAP17, which acts by regulating the uptake of polarity proteins at tight junctions. Appears to regulate endothelial cell migration and tube formation. May also play a role in the assembly of endothelial cell-cell junctions.	same
AMELY	This gene encodes a member of the amelogenin family of extracellular matrix proteins. Amelogenins are involved in biomineralization during tooth enamel development. Mutations in a related gene on chromosome X cause X-linked amelogenesis imperfecta. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AMELY (Amelogenin, Y-Linked) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AMELY include dental pulp necrosis and dental fluorosis. GO annotations related to this gene include structural constituent of tooth enamel. An important paralog of this gene is AMELX.	Plays a role in biomineralization. Seems to regulate the formation of crystallites during the secretory stage of tooth enamel development. Thought to play a major role in the structural organization and mineralization of developing enamel	same
AMAC1L3	empty	SLC35G6 (Solute Carrier Family 35, Member G6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with SLC35G6 include sporadic breast cancer. An important paralog of this gene is SLC35G2.	empty	diff
AMY2A	This gene encodes a member of the alpha-amylase family of proteins. Amylases are secreted proteins that hydrolyze 1,4-alpha-glucoside bonds in oligosaccharides and polysaccharides, catalyzing the first step in digestion of dietary starch and glycogen. This gene and several family members are present in a gene cluster on chromosome 1. This gene encodes an amylase isoenzyme produced by the pancreas. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2015]	AMY2A (Amylase, Alpha 2A (Pancreatic)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AMY2A include exstrophy of the bladder. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and alpha-amylase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AMY2B.	empty	same
ANAPC13	This gene encodes a component of the anaphase promoting complex, a large ubiquitin-protein ligase that controls cell cycle progression by regulating the degradation of cell cycle regulators such as B-type cyclins. The encoded protein is evolutionarily conserved and is required for the integrity and ubiquitin ligase activity of the anaphase promoting complex. Pseudogenes and splice variants have been found for this gene; however, the biological validity of some of the splice variants has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]	ANAPC13 (Anaphase Promoting Complex Subunit 13) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Oocyte meiosis.	Component of the anaphase promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C), a cell cycle-regulated E3 ubiquitin ligase that controls progression through mitosis and the G1 phase of the cell cycle. The APC/C complex acts by mediating ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of target proteins: it mainly mediates the formation of Lys-11-linked polyubiquitin chains and, to a lower extent, the formation of Lys-48- and Lys-63-linked polyubiquitin chains.	same
ANAPC1	This gene encodes a subunit of the anaphase-promoting complex. This complex is an E3 ubiquitin ligase that regulates progression through the metaphase to anaphase portion of the cell cycle by ubiquitinating proteins which targets them for degradation. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	ANAPC1 (Anaphase Promoting Complex Subunit 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and PAK Pathway.	Component of the anaphase promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C), a cell cycle-regulated E3 ubiquitin ligase that controls progression through mitosis and the G1 phase of the cell cycle. The APC/C complex acts by mediating ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of target proteins: it mainly mediates the formation of Lys-11-linked polyubiquitin chains and, to a lower extent, the formation of Lys-48- and Lys-63-linked polyubiquitin chains.	same
ANAPC2	A large protein complex, termed the anaphase-promoting complex (APC), or the cyclosome, promotes metaphase-anaphase transition by ubiquitinating its specific substrates such as mitotic cyclins and anaphase inhibitor, which are subsequently degraded by the 26S proteasome. Biochemical studies have shown that the vertebrate APC contains eight subunits. The composition of the APC is highly conserved in organisms from yeast to humans. The product of this gene is a component of the complex and shares sequence similarity with a recently identified family of proteins called cullins, which may also be involved in ubiquitin-mediated degradation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ANAPC2 (Anaphase Promoting Complex Subunit 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Regulation of actin cytoskeleton and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin-protein transferase activity and ubiquitin protein ligase binding.	Together with the RING-H2 protein ANAPC11, constitutes the catalytic component of the anaphase promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C), a cell cycle-regulated E3 ubiquitin ligase that controls progression through mitosis and the G1 phase of the cell cycle. The APC/C complex acts by mediating ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of target proteins: it mainly mediates the formation of Lys-11-linked polyubiquitin chains and, to a lower extent, the formation of Lys-48- and Lys-63-linked polyubiquitin chains. The CDC20-APC/C complex positively regulates the formation of synaptic vesicle clustering at active zone to the presynaptic membrane in postmitotic neurons. CDC20-APC/C-induced degradation of NEUROD2 drives presynaptic differentiation.	same
ANAPC5	This gene encodes a tetratricopeptide repeat-containing component of the anaphase promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C), a large E3 ubiquitin ligase that controls cell cycle progression by targeting a number of cell cycle regulators such as B-type cyclins for 26S proteasome-mediated degradation through ubiquitination. The encoded protein is required for the proper ubiquitination function of APC/C and for the interaction of APC/C with transcription coactivators. It also interacts with polyA binding protein and represses internal ribosome entry site-mediated translation. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. These differences cause translation initiation at a downstream AUG and result in a shorter protein (isoform b), compared to isoform a. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]	ANAPC5 (Anaphase Promoting Complex Subunit 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and PAK Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin-protein transferase activity and protein phosphatase binding.	Component of the anaphase promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C), a cell cycle-regulated E3 ubiquitin ligase that controls progression through mitosis and the G1 phase of the cell cycle. The APC/C complex acts by mediating ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of target proteins: it mainly mediates the formation of Lys-11-linked polyubiquitin chains and, to a lower extent, the formation of Lys-48- and Lys-63-linked polyubiquitin chains.	same
ANGEL2	empty	ANGEL2 (Angel Homolog 2 (Drosophila)) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is PDE12.	empty	same
ANGPT1	Angiopoietins are proteins with important roles in vascular development and angiogenesis. All angiopoietins bind with similar affinity to an endothelial cell-specific tyrosine-protein kinase receptor. The protein encoded by this gene is a secreted glycoprotein that activates the receptor by inducing its tyrosine phosphorylation. It plays a critical role in mediating reciprocal interactions between the endothelium and surrounding matrix and mesenchyme and inhibits endothelial permeability. The protein also contributes to blood vessel maturation and stability, and may be involved in early development of the heart. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]	ANGPT1 (Angiopoietin 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANGPT1 include chorioangioma and lipodermatosclerosis. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Ras signaling pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor tyrosine kinase binding. An important paralog of this gene is FIBCD1.	Binds and activates TEK/TIE2 receptor by inducing its dimerization and tyrosine phosphorylation. Plays an important role in the regulation of angiogenesis, endothelial cell survival, proliferation, migration, adhesion and cell spreading, reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton, but also maintenance of vascular quiescence. Required for normal angiogenesis and heart development during embryogenesis. After birth, activates or inhibits angiogenesis, depending on the context. Inhibits angiogenesis and promotes vascular stability in quiescent vessels, where endothelial cells have tight contacts. In quiescent vessels, ANGPT1 oligomers recruit TEK to cell-cell contacts, forming complexes with TEK molecules from adjoining cells, and this leads to preferential activation of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and the AKT1 signaling cascades. In migrating endothelial cells that lack cell-cell adhesions, ANGT1 recruits TEK to contacts with the extracellular matrix, leading to the formation of focal adhesion complexes, activation of PTK2/FAK and of the downstream kinases MAPK1/ERK2 and MAPK3/ERK1, and ultimately to the stimulation of sprouting angiogenesis. Mediates blood vessel maturation/stability. Implicated in endothelial developmental processes later and distinct from that of VEGF. Appears to play a crucial role in mediating reciprocal interactions between the endothelium and surrounding matrix and mesenchyme.	same
ANGPTL2	Angiopoietins are members of the vascular endothelial growth factor family and the only known growth factors largely specific for vascular endothelium. Angiopoietin-1, angiopoietin-2, and angiopoietin-4 participate in the formation of blood vessels. ANGPTL2 protein is a secreted glycoprotein with homology to the angiopoietins and may exert a function on endothelial cells through autocrine or paracrine action. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ANGPTL2 (Angiopoietin-Like 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are IL-9 Signaling Pathways. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding. An important paralog of this gene is FIBCD1.	Induces sprouting in endothelial cells through an autocrine and paracrine action	same
AMZ2	empty	AMZ2 (Archaelysin Family Metallopeptidase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include metallopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AMZ1.	Zinc metalloprotease. Exhibits activity against angiotensin-3 in vitro. Does not hydrolyze either neurogranin or angiotensin-2.	same
ANAPC7	This gene encodes a tetratricopeptide repeat containing component of the anaphase promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C), a large E3 ubiquitin ligase that controls cell cycle progression by targeting a number of cell cycle regulators such as B-type cyclins for 26S proteasome-mediated degradation through ubiquitination. The encoded protein is required for proper protein ubiquitination function of APC/C and for the interaction of APC/C with certain transcription coactivators. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]	ANAPC7 (Anaphase Promoting Complex Subunit 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and PAK Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protein phosphatase binding.	Component of the anaphase promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C), a cell cycle-regulated E3 ubiquitin ligase that controls progression through mitosis and the G1 phase of the cell cycle. The APC/C complex acts by mediating ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of target proteins: it mainly mediates the formation of Lys-11-linked polyubiquitin chains and, to a lower extent, the formation of Lys-48- and Lys-63-linked polyubiquitin chains.	same
ANGPT2	The protein encoded by this gene is an antagonist of angiopoietin 1 (ANGPT1) and endothelial TEK tyrosine kinase (TIE-2, TEK). The encoded protein disrupts the vascular remodeling ability of ANGPT1 and may induce endothelial cell apoptosis. Three transcript variants encoding three different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ANGPT2 (Angiopoietin 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANGPT2 include placenta accreta and twin-to-twin transfusion syndrome. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Ras signaling pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and receptor tyrosine kinase binding. An important paralog of this gene is FIBCD1.	Binds to TEK/TIE2, competing for the ANGPT1 binding site, and modulating ANGPT1 signaling. Can induce tyrosine phosphorylation of TEK/TIE2 in the absence of ANGPT1. In the absence of angiogenic inducers, such as VEGF, ANGPT2-mediated loosening of cell-matrix contacts may induce endothelial cell apoptosis with consequent vascular regression. In concert with VEGF, it may facilitate endothelial cell migration and proliferation, thus serving as a permissive angiogenic signal.	same
ANGPTL1	Angiopoietins are members of the vascular endothelial growth factor family and the only known growth factors largely specific for vascular endothelium. Angiopoietin-1, angiopoietin-2, and angiopoietin-4 participate in the formation of blood vessels. The protein encoded by this gene is another member of the angiopoietin family that is widely expressed in adult tissues with mRNA levels highest in highly vascularized tissues. This protein was found to be a secretory protein that does not act as an endothelial cell mitogen in vitro. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ANGPTL1 (Angiopoietin-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are TGF-Beta Pathway and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding. An important paralog of this gene is FIBCD1.	empty	same
ANAPC11	empty	ANAPC11 (Anaphase Promoting Complex Subunit 11) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANAPC11 include hepatocellular carcinoma. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and PAK Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin-protein transferase activity.	Together with the cullin protein ANAPC2, constitutes the catalytic component of the anaphase promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C), a cell cycle-regulated E3 ubiquitin ligase that controls progression through mitosis and the G1 phase of the cell cycle. The APC/C complex acts by mediating ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of target proteins: it mainly mediates the formation of Lys-11-linked polyubiquitin chains and, to a lower extent, the formation of Lys-48- and Lys-63-linked polyubiquitin chains. May recruit the E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes to the complex.	same
ANAPC16	empty	ANAPC16 (Anaphase Promoting Complex Subunit 16) is a Protein Coding gene.	Component of the anaphase promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C), a cell cycle-regulated E3 ubiquitin ligase that controls progression through mitosis and the G1 phase of the cell cycle. The APC/C complex acts by mediating ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of target proteins: it mainly mediates the formation of Lys-11-linked polyubiquitin chains and, to a lower extent, the formation of Lys-48- and Lys-63-linked polyubiquitin chains.	same
AMY2B	Amylases are secreted proteins that hydrolyze 1,4-alpha-glucoside bonds in oligosaccharides and polysaccharides, and thus catalyze the first step in digestion of dietary starch and glycogen. The human genome has a cluster of several amylase genes that are expressed at high levels in either salivary gland or pancreas. This gene encodes an amylase isoenzyme produced by the pancreas. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2013]	AMY2B (Amylase, Alpha 2B (Pancreatic)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include alpha-amylase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AMY1C.	empty	same
ANGPTL4	This gene encodes a glycosylated, secreted protein containing a C-terminal fibrinogen domain. The encoded protein is induced by peroxisome proliferation activators and functions as a serum hormone that regulates glucose homeostasis, lipid metabolism, and insulin sensitivity. This protein can also act as an apoptosis survival factor for vascular endothelial cells and can prevent metastasis by inhibiting vascular growth and tumor cell invasion. The C-terminal domain may be proteolytically-cleaved from the full-length secreted protein. Decreased expression of this gene has been associated with type 2 diabetes. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. This gene was previously referred to as ANGPTL2 but has been renamed ANGPTL4. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2013]	ANGPTL4 (Angiopoietin-Like 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANGPTL4 include plasma triglyceride level qtl, low and tongue squamous cell carcinoma. Among its related pathways are L1CAM interactions and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include enzyme inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is TNC.	Protein with hypoxia-induced expression in endothelial cells. May act as a regulator of angiogenesis and modulate tumorigenesis. Inhibits proliferation, migration, and tubule formation of endothelial cells and reduces vascular leakage. May exert a protective function on endothelial cells through an endocrine action. It is directly involved in regulating glucose homeostasis, lipid metabolism, and insulin sensitivity. In response to hypoxia, the unprocessed form of the protein accumulates in the subendothelial extracellular matrix (ECM). The matrix-associated and immobilized unprocessed form limits the formation of actin stress fibers and focal contacts in the adhering endothelial cells and inhibits their adhesion. It also decreases motility of endothelial cells and inhibits the sprouting and tube formation (By similarity).	same
ANG	The protein encoded by this gene is an exceedingly potent mediator of new blood vessel formation. It hydrolyzes cellular tRNAs resulting in decreased protein synthesis and is similar to pancreatic ribonuclease. In addition, the mature peptide has antimicrobial activity against some bacteria and fungi, including S. pneumoniae and C. albicans. Alternative splicing results in two transcript variants encoding the same protein. This gene and the gene that encodes ribonuclease, RNase A family, 4 share promoters and 5' exons. Each gene splices to a unique downstream exon that contains its complete coding region. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2014]	ANG (Angiogenin, Ribonuclease, RNase A Family, 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANG include amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 9 and ang-related amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding and heparin binding. An important paralog of this gene is RNASE1.	Binds to actin on the surface of endothelial cells; once bound, angiogenin is endocytosed and translocated to the nucleus. Stimulates ribosomal RNA synthesis including that containing the initiation site sequences of 45S rRNA. Cleaves tRNA within anticodon loops to produce tRNA-derived stress-induced fragments (tiRNAs) which inhibit protein synthesis and triggers the assembly of stress granules (SGs). Angiogenin induces vascularization of normal and malignant tissues. Angiogenic activity is regulated by interaction with RNH1 in vivo.	same
ANGPTL7	empty	ANGPTL7 (Angiopoietin-Like 7) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is FIBCD1.	empty	same
ANGEL1	empty	ANGEL1 (Angel Homolog 1 (Drosophila)) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is PDE12.	empty	same
ANK1	Ankyrins are a family of proteins that link the integral membrane proteins to the underlying spectrin-actin cytoskeleton and play key roles in activities such as cell motility, activation, proliferation, contact and the maintenance of specialized membrane domains. Multiple isoforms of ankyrin with different affinities for various target proteins are expressed in a tissue-specific, developmentally regulated manner. Most ankyrins are typically composed of three structural domains: an amino-terminal domain containing multiple ankyrin repeats; a central region with a highly conserved spectrin binding domain; and a carboxy-terminal regulatory domain which is the least conserved and subject to variation. Ankyrin 1, the prototype of this family, was first discovered in the erythrocytes, but since has also been found in brain and muscles. Mutations in erythrocytic ankyrin 1 have been associated in approximately half of all patients with hereditary spherocytosis. Complex patterns of alternative splicing in the regulatory domain, giving rise to different isoforms of ankyrin 1 have been described. Truncated muscle-specific isoforms of ankyrin 1 resulting from usage of an alternate promoter have also been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]	ANK1 (Ankyrin 1, Erythrocytic) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANK1 include spherocytosis, type 1 and ank1-related spherocytosis. Among its related pathways are Proteoglycans in cancer and L1CAM interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include enzyme binding and structural constituent of cytoskeleton. An important paralog of this gene is ANKRD52.	Attaches integral membrane proteins to cytoskeletal elements; binds to the erythrocyte membrane protein band 4.2, to Na-K ATPase, to the lymphocyte membrane protein GP85, and to the cytoskeletal proteins fodrin, tubulin, vimentin and desmin. Erythrocyte ankyrins also link spectrin (beta chain) to the cytoplasmic domain of the erythrocytes anion exchange protein; they retain most or all of these binding functions.	same
ANGPTL6	empty	ANGPTL6 (Angiopoietin-Like 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANGPTL6 include enterobiasis and gnathomiasis. Among its related pathways are NF-KappaB Family Pathway and NF-KappaB Family Pathway. An important paralog of this gene is FIBCD1.	May play a role in the wound healing process. May promote epidermal proliferation, remodeling and regeneration. May promote the chemotactic activity of endothelial cells and induce neovascularization. May counteract high-fat diet-induced obesity and related insulin resistance through increased energy expenditure	same
ANK2	This gene encodes a member of the ankyrin family of proteins that link the integral membrane proteins to the underlying spectrin-actin cytoskeleton. Ankyrins play key roles in activities such as cell motility, activation, proliferation, contact and the maintenance of specialized membrane domains. Most ankyrins are typically composed of three structural domains: an amino-terminal domain containing multiple ankyrin repeats; a central region with a highly conserved spectrin binding domain; and a carboxy-terminal regulatory domain which is the least conserved and subject to variation. The protein encoded by this gene is required for targeting and stability of Na/Ca exchanger 1 in cardiomyocytes. Mutations in this gene cause long QT syndrome 4 and cardiac arrhythmia syndrome. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	ANK2 (Ankyrin 2, Neuronal) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANK2 include cardiac arrhythmia, ankyrin-b-related and long qt syndrome 1. Among its related pathways are Proteoglycans in cancer and L1CAM interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and ion channel binding. An important paralog of this gene is ANKRD52.	In skeletal muscle, required for proper localization of DMD and DCTN4 and for the formation and/or stability of a special subset of microtubules associated with costameres and neuromuscular junctions (By similarity). Attaches integral membrane proteins to cytoskeletal elements. Also binds to cytoskeletal proteins. Required for coordinate assembly of Na/Ca exchanger, Na/K ATPase and InsP3 receptor at sarcoplasmic reticulum sites in cardiomyocytes. Required for the coordinated expression of the Na/K ATPase, Na/Ca exchanger and beta-2-spectrin (SPTBN1) in the inner segment of rod photoreceptors. Required for expression and targeting of SPTBN1 in neonatal cardiomyocytes and for the regulation of neonatal cardiomyocyte contraction rate.	same
ANGPTL5	empty	ANGPTL5 (Angiopoietin-Like 5) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is TNC.	empty	same
ANKFN1	empty	ANKFN1 (Ankyrin-Repeat And Fibronectin Type III Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANKFN1 include cannabis dependence.	empty	same
ANK3	Ankyrins are a family of proteins that are believed to link the integral membrane proteins to the underlying spectrin-actin cytoskeleton and play key roles in activities such as cell motility, activation, proliferation, contact, and the maintenance of specialized membrane domains. Multiple isoforms of ankyrin with different affinities for various target proteins are expressed in a tissue-specific, developmentally regulated manner. Most ankyrins are typically composed of three structural domains: an amino-terminal domain containing multiple ankyrin repeats; a central region with a highly conserved spectrin binding domain; and a carboxy-terminal regulatory domain which is the least conserved and subject to variation. Ankyrin 3 is an immunologically distinct gene product from ankyrins 1 and 2, and was originally found at the axonal initial segment and nodes of Ranvier of neurons in the central and peripheral nervous systems. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]	ANK3 (Ankyrin 3, Node Of Ranvier (Ankyrin G)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANK3 include mental retardation, autosomal recessive, 37 and intellectual disability - hypotonia - spasticity - sleep disorder. Among its related pathways are Proteoglycans in cancer and L1CAM interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include structural constituent of cytoskeleton and protein binding, bridging. An important paralog of this gene is ANKRD52.	In skeletal muscle, required for costamere localization of DMD and betaDAG1 (By similarity). Membrane-cytoskeleton linker. May participate in the maintenance/targeting of ion channels and cell adhesion molecules at the nodes of Ranvier and axonal initial segments. Regulates KCNA1 channel activity in function of dietary Mg(2+) levels, and thereby contributes to the regulation of renal Mg(2+) reabsorption (PubMed:23903368).	same
ANKFY1	This gene encodes a cytoplasmic protein that contains a coiled-coil structure and a BTB/POZ domain at its N-terminus, ankyrin repeats in the middle portion, and a FYVE-finger motif at its C-terminus. This protein belongs to a subgroup of double zinc finger proteins which may be involved in vesicle or protein transport. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants of this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]	ANKFY1 (Ankyrin Repeat And FYVE Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ANKRD52.	Proposed effector of Rab5. Binds to phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate (PI(3)P). Involved in homotypic early endosome fusion and to a lesser extend in heterotypic fusion of chlathrin-coated vesicles with early endosomes. Involved in macropinocytosis; the function is dependent on Rab5-GTP. Required for correct endosomal localization. Involved in the internalization and trafficking of activated tyrosine kinase receptors such as PDGFRB. Regulates the sucellular localization of the retromer complex in a EHD1-dependent manner. Involved in endosome-to-Golgi transport and biosynthetic transport to late endosomes and lysosomes indicative for a regulation of retromer complex-mediated retrograde transport.	same
ANKDD1A	empty	ANKDD1A (Ankyrin Repeat And Death Domain Containing 1A) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ANKDD1B.	empty	same
ANKHD1-EIF4EBP3	The ANKHD1-EIF4EBP3 mRNA is an infrequent but naturally occurring readthrough transcript of the neighboring ANKHD1 and EIF4EBP3 genes. This readthrough transcript encodes a protein composed mostly of the multiple ankyrin repeats, single KH-domain protein, with its C-terminus encoded in a different reading frame from the shared portion of the EIF4EBP3 gene. The significance of this readthrough mRNA and the function of its protein product have not yet been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]	ANKHD1-EIF4EBP3 (ANKHD1-EIF4EBP3 Readthrough) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is TANC1.	empty	same
ANGPT4	Angiopoietins are proteins with important roles in vascular development and angiogenesis. All angiopoietins bind with similar affinity to an endothelial cell-specific tyrosine-protein kinase receptor. The mechanism by which they contribute to angiogenesis is thought to involve regulation of endothelial cell interactions with supporting perivascular cells. The protein encoded by this gene functions as an agonist and is an angiopoietin. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ANGPT4 (Angiopoietin 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Ras signaling pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor tyrosine kinase binding and transmembrane receptor protein tyrosine kinase activator activity. An important paralog of this gene is FIBCD1.	Binds to TEK/TIE2, modulating ANGPT1 signaling. Can induce tyrosine phosphorylation of TEK/TIE2. Promotes endothelial cell survival, migration and angiogenesis.	same
ANAPC4	A large protein complex, termed the anaphase-promoting complex (APC), or the cyclosome, promotes metaphase-anaphase transition by ubiquitinating its specific substrates such as mitotic cyclins and anaphase inhibitor, which are subsequently degraded by the 26S proteasome. Biochemical studies have shown that the vertebrate APC contains eight subunits. The composition of the APC is highly conserved in organisms from yeast to humans. The exact function of this gene product is not known. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2013]	ANAPC4 (Anaphase Promoting Complex Subunit 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and PAK Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin-protein transferase activity and protein phosphatase binding.	Component of the anaphase promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C), a cell cycle-regulated E3 ubiquitin ligase that controls progression through mitosis and the G1 phase of the cell cycle. The APC/C complex acts by mediating ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of target proteins: it mainly mediates the formation of Lys-11-linked polyubiquitin chains and, to a lower extent, the formation of Lys-48- and Lys-63-linked polyubiquitin chains.	same
ANGPTL3	This gene encodes a member of a family of secreted proteins that function in angiogenesis. The encoded protein, which is expressed predominantly in the liver, is further processed into an N-terminal coiled-coil domain-containing chain and a C-terminal fibrinogen chain. The N-terminal chain is important for lipid metablism, while the C-terminal chain may be involved in angiogenesis. Mutations in this gene cause familial hypobetalipoproteinemia type 2. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2013]	ANGPTL3 (Angiopoietin-Like 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANGPTL3 include hypobetalipoproteinemia, familial, 2 and abetalipoproteinemia. Among its related pathways are Integrins in angiogenesis. GO annotations related to this gene include growth factor activity and enzyme inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is TNC.	empty	same
ANKHD1	This gene encodes a protein with multiple ankyrin repeat domains and a single KH-domain. The protein is thought to function as a scaffolding protein, and it may be involved in the regulation of caspases and thereby play an antiapoptotic role in cell survival. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, one of which generates a fusion transcript (MASK-BP3) with the downstream eIF4E-binding protein 3 (EIF4EBP3) gene, resulting in a protein comprised of the ANKHD1 sequence for the majority of the protein and a different C-terminus due to an alternate reading frame for the EIF4EBP3 segments. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]	ANKHD1 (Ankyrin Repeat And KH Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANKHD1 include hiv-1. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is TANC1.	May play a role as a scaffolding protein that may be associated with the abnormal phenotype of leukemia cells. Isoform 2 may possess an antiapoptotic effect and protect cells during normal cell survival through its regulation of caspases.	same
ANKK1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Ser/Thr protein kinase family, and protein kinase superfamily involved in signal transduction pathways. This gene is closely linked to DRD2 gene (GeneID:1813) on chr 11, and a well studied restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) designated TaqIA, was originally associated with the DRD2 gene, however, later was determined to be located in exon 8 of ANKK1 gene (PMIDs: 18621654, 15146457), where it causes a nonconservative amino acid substitution. It is not clear if this gene plays any role in neuropsychiatric disorders previously associated with Taq1A RFLP. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]	ANKK1 (Ankyrin Repeat And Kinase Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANKK1 include alexithymia and heroin dependence. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is RIPK3.	empty	same
ANKLE1	empty	ANKLE1 (Ankyrin Repeat And LEM Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
ANKMY1	empty	ANKMY1 (Ankyrin Repeat And MYND Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
ANKAR	empty	ANKAR (Ankyrin And Armadillo Repeat Containing) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
ANKMY2	empty	ANKMY2 (Ankyrin Repeat And MYND Domain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene.	May be involved in the trafficking of signaling proteins to the cilia.	same
ANKIB1	empty	ANKIB1 (Ankyrin Repeat And IBR Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is RNF19A.	Might act as an E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase, or as part of E3 complex, which accepts ubiquitin from specific E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes and then transfers it to substrates.	same
ANKRD13A	empty	ANKRD13A (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 13A) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ANKRD13D.	Ubiquitin-binding protein that specifically recognizes and binds Lys-63-linked ubiquitin. Does not bind Lys-48-linked ubiquitin. Positively regulates the internalization of ligand-activated EGFR by binding to the Ub moiety of ubiquitinated EGFR at the cell membrane.	same
ANKRD11	This locus encodes an ankryin repeat domain-containing protein. The encoded protein inhibits ligand-dependent activation of transcription. Mutations in this gene have been associated with KBG syndrome, which is characterized by macrodontia, distinctive craniofacial features, short stature, skeletal anomalies, global developmental delay, seizures and intellectual disability. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. Related pseudogenes exist on chromosomes 2 and X. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]	ANKRD11 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 11) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANKRD11 include kbg syndrome and 16q24.3 microdeletion syndrome. An important paralog of this gene is BCORL1.	May recruit HDACs to the p160 coactivators/nuclear receptor complex to inhibit ligand-dependent transactivation	same
ANKRD13D	empty	ANKRD13D (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 13 Family, Member D) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ANKRD13B.	Ubiquitin-binding protein that specifically recognizes and binds Lys-63-linked ubiquitin. Does not bind Lys-48-linked ubiquitin. Positively regulates the internalization of ligand-activated EGFR by binding to the Ub moiety of ubiquitinated EGFR at the cell membrane.	same
ANKRD20A3	empty	ANKRD20A3 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 20 Family, Member A3) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ANKRD20A2.	empty	same
ANKRD19	empty	ANKRD19P (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 19, Pseudogene) is a Pseudogene.	empty	diff
ANKH	This gene encodes a multipass transmembrane protein that is expressed in joints and other tissues and controls pyrophosphate levels in cultured cells. Progressive ankylosis-mediated control of pyrophosphate levels has been suggested as a possible mechanism regulating tissue calcification and susceptibility to arthritis in higher animals. Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal dominant craniometaphyseal dysplasia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ANKH (ANKH Inorganic Pyrophosphate Transport Regulator) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANKH include chondrocalcinosis 2 and craniometaphyseal dysplasia. GO annotations related to this gene include inorganic phosphate transmembrane transporter activity and inorganic diphosphate transmembrane transporter activity.	Regulates intra- and extracellular levels of inorganic pyrophosphate (PPi), probably functioning as PPi transporter	same
ANKRD13C	empty	ANKRD13C (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 13C) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding. An important paralog of this gene is ANKRD13D.	Acts as a molecular chaperone for G protein-coupled receptors, regulating their biogenesis and exit from the ER.	same
ANKRD16	empty	ANKRD16 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 16) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is TRPA1.	empty	same
ANKRD13B	empty	ANKRD13B (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 13B) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ANKRD13D.	Ubiquitin-binding protein that specifically recognizes and binds Lys-63-linked ubiquitin. Does not bind Lys-48-linked ubiquitin. Positively regulates the internalization of ligand-activated EGFR by binding to the Ub moiety of ubiquitinated EGFR at the cell membrane.	same
ANKRD20A4	empty	ANKRD20A4 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 20 Family, Member A4) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is POTEJ.	empty	same
ANKRD1	The protein encoded by this gene is localized to the nucleus of endothelial cells and is induced by IL-1 and TNF-alpha stimulation. Studies in rat cardiomyocytes suggest that this gene functions as a transcription factor. Interactions between this protein and the sarcomeric proteins myopalladin and titin suggest that it may also be involved in the myofibrillar stretch-sensor system. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ANKRD1 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 1 (Cardiac Muscle)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANKRD1 include total anomalous pulmonary venous return and ankrd1-related dilated cardiomyopathy. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include transcription corepressor activity and p53 binding. An important paralog of this gene is GABPB2.	May play an important role in endothelial cell activation. May act as a nuclear transcription factor that negatively regulates the expression of cardiac genes. Induction seems to be correlated with apoptotic cell death in hepatoma cells.	same
ANKRD10	empty	ANKRD10 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 10) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ANKRD37.	empty	same
ANKRD22	empty	ANKRD22 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 22) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
ANKLE2	This gene encodes a member of the LEM family of inner nuclear membrane proteins. The encoded protein functions as a mitotic regulator through postmitotic formation of the nuclear envelope. Mutations in this gene cause morphology defects in the nuclear envelope and BAF hyperphosphorylation. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2014]	ANKLE2 (Ankyrin Repeat And LEM Domain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANKLE2 include scurvy and pigmented villonodular synovitis. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include protein phosphatase type 2A regulator activity and protein phosphatase 2A binding.	Involved in mitotic nuclear envelope reassembly by promoting dephosphorylation of BAF/BANF1 during mitotic exit. Coordinates the control of BAF/BANF1 dephosphorylation by inhibiting VRK1 kinase and promoting dephosphorylation of BAF/BANF1 by protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A), thereby facilitating nuclear envelope assembly. It is unclear whether it acts as a real PP2A regulatory subunit or whether it is involved in recruitment of the PP2A complex.	same
ANKRD23	This gene is a member of the muscle ankyrin repeat protein (MARP) family and encodes a protein with four tandem ankyrin-like repeats. The protein is localized to the nucleus, functioning as a transcriptional regulator. Expression of this protein is induced during recovery following starvation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ANKRD23 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 23) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include titin binding. An important paralog of this gene is ANKRD1.	May be involved in the energy metabolism. Could be a molecular link between myofibrillar stretch-induced signaling pathways and muscle gene expression	same
ANKRD20B	empty	ANKRD20A8P (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 20 Family, Member A8, Pseudogene) is a Pseudogene.	empty	diff
ANKRD26P1	empty	ANKRD26P1 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 26 Pseudogene 1) is a Pseudogene.	empty	same
ANKRA2	empty	ANKRA2 (Ankyrin Repeat, Family A (RFXANK-Like), 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling events mediated by HDAC Class II. GO annotations related to this gene include histone deacetylase binding and low-density lipoprotein particle binding. An important paralog of this gene is RFXANK.	May facilitate endocytosis by linking megalin to components of the cytoskeleton or endocytic machinery	same
ANKRD12	This gene encodes a member of the ankyrin repeats-containing cofactor family. These proteins may inhibit the transcriptional activity of nuclear receptors through the recruitment of histone deacetylases. The encoded protein interacts with p160 coactivators and also represses transcription mediated by the coactivator alteration/deficiency in activation 3 (ADA3). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]	ANKRD12 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 12) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is BCORL1.	May recruit HDACs to the p160 coactivators/nuclear receptor complex to inhibit ligand-dependent transactivation	same
ANKRD24	empty	ANKRD24 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 24) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is UACA.	empty	same
ANKRD27	empty	ANKRD27 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 27 (VPS9 Domain)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include GTPase activator activity and guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is OSTF1.	May be a guanine exchange factor (GEF) for Rab21, Rab32 and Rab38 and regulate endosome dynamics (PubMed:16525121, PubMed:18477474). May regulate the participation of VAMP7 in membrane fusion events; in vitro inhibits VAMP7-mediated SNARE complex formation by trapping VAMP7 in a closed, fusogenically inactive conformation (PubMed:23104059). Involved in peripheral melanosomal distribution of TYRP1 in melanocytes; the function, which probably is implicating vesicle-trafficking, includes cooperation with Rab32, Rab38 and VAMP7 (By similarity). Involved in the regulation of neurite growth; the function seems to require its GEF activity, probably towards Rab21, and VAMP7 but not Rab32/38 (By similarity). Proposed to be involved in Golgi sorting of VAMP7 and transport of VAMP7 vesicles to the cell surface; the function seems to implicate kinesin heavy chain isoform 5 proteins, GOLGA4, RAB21 and MACF1 (PubMed:22705394). Required for the colocalization of VAMP7 and Rab21, probably on TGN sites (PubMed:19745841). Involved in GLUT1 endosome-to-plasma membrane trafficking; the function is dependent of association with VPS29 (PubMed:24856514).	same
ANKRD26	This gene encodes a protein containing N-terminal ankyrin repeats which function in protein-protein interactions. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal dominant thrombocytopenia-2. Pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosome 7, 10, 13 and 16. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	ANKRD26 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 26) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANKRD26 include thrombocytopenia 2 and ankrd26-related thrombocytopenia 2. An important paralog of this gene is POTEJ.	empty	same
ANKRD29	empty	ANKRD29 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 29) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is TANC1.	empty	same
ANKRD30A	empty	ANKRD30A (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 30A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANKRD30A include breast cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is POTEJ.	empty	same
ANKRD2	This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the muscle ankyrin repeat protein (MARP) family. A similar gene in rodents is a component of a muscle stress response pathway and plays a role in the stretch-response associated with slow muscle function. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2014]	ANKRD2 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 2 (Stretch Responsive Muscle)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANKRD2 include dubin-johnson syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include structural constituent of muscle and titin binding. An important paralog of this gene is ANKRD1.	Functions as a negative regulator of myocyte differentiation. May interact with both sarcoplasmic structural proteins and nuclear proteins to regulate gene expression during muscle development and in response to muscle stress.	same
ANKRD31	empty	ANKRD31 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 31) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is BCORL1.	empty	same
ANKRD33	empty	ANKRD33 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 33) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ANKRD33B.	empty	same
ANKRD17	This gene encodes a protein with ankyrin repeats, which are associated with protein-protein interactions. Studies in mice suggest that this protein is involved in liver development. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2013]	ANKRD17 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 17) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANKRD17 include hand, foot and mouth disease and breast cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is TANC1.	Could play pivotal roles in cell cycle and DNA regulation (PubMed:19150984). Involved in innate immune defense against viruse by positively regulating the viral dsRNA receptors DDX58 and IFIH1 signaling pathways (PubMed:22328336). Involves in NOD2- and NOD1-mediated responses to bacteria suggesting a role in innate antibacterial immune pathways too (PubMed:23711367). Target of enterovirus 71 which is the major etiological agent of HFMD (hand, foot and mouth disease) (PubMed:17276651). Could play a central role for the formation and/or maintenance of the blood vessels of the circulation system (By similarity).	same
ANKRD35	empty	ANKRD35 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 35) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is UACA.	empty	same
ANKRD34B	empty	ANKRD34B (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 34B) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ANKRD34C.	empty	same
ANKRD34C	empty	ANKRD34C (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 34C) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ANKRD34B.	empty	same
ANKRD36	empty	ANKRD36 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 36) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is POTEJ.	empty	same
ANKRD28	empty	ANKRD28 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 28) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ANKRD52.	Putative regulatory subunit of protein phosphatase 6 (PP6) that may be involved in the recognition of phosphoprotein substrates. Involved in the PP6-mediated dephosphorylation of NFKBIE opposing its degradation in response to TNF-alpha. Selectively inhibits the phosphatase activity of PPP1C. Targets PPP1C to modulate HNRPK phosphorylation.	same
ANKRD36B	empty	ANKRD36B (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 36B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANKRD36B include acral lentiginous melanoma and melanoma.	empty	same
ANKRD36BP1	empty	ANKRD36BP1 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 36B Pseudogene 1) is a Pseudogene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	same
ANKRD40	empty	ANKRD40 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 40) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
ANKRD30B	empty	ANKRD30B (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 30B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANKRD30B include breast cancer. An important paralog of this gene is POTEJ.	empty	same
ANKRD32	empty	ANKRD32 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 32) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is BCORL1.	empty	same
ANKRD45	empty	ANKRD45 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 45) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
ANKRD39	empty	ANKRD39 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 39) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
ANKRD34A	empty	ANKRD34A (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 34A) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
ANKRD37	empty	ANKRD37 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 37) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ANKRD10.	empty	same
ANKRD46	This gene encodes a protein containing multiple ankyrin repeats. Ankyrin domains function in protein-protein interactions in a variety of cellular processes. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]	ANKRD46 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 46) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ANKRD63.	empty	same
ANKRD42	empty	ANKRD42 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 42) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include NF-kappaB binding. An important paralog of this gene is ASB7.	empty	same
ANKRD50	empty	ANKRD50 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 50) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ANKRD52.	Involved in the endosome-to-plasma membrane trafficking and recycling of SNX27-retromer-dependent cargo proteins, such as GLUT1 (PubMed:25278552)	same
ANKRD53	empty	ANKRD53 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 53) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
ANKRD44	empty	ANKRD44 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 44) is a Protein Coding gene.	Putative regulatory subunit of protein phosphatase 6 (PP6) that may be involved in the recognition of phosphoprotein substrates	same
ANKRD55	empty	ANKRD55 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 55) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANKRD55 include polyarticular onset juvenile idiopathic arthritis and oligoarticular juvenile arthritis.	empty	same
ANKRD7	empty	ANKRD7 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 7) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is POTEJ.	empty	same
ANKRD57	empty	SOWAHC (Sosondowah Ankyrin Repeat Domain Family Member C) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is SOWAHD.	empty	diff
ANKRD49	empty	ANKRD49 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 49) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
ANKS1B	This gene encodes a multi-domain protein that is predominantly expressed in brain and testis. This protein interacts with amyloid beta protein precursor (AbetaPP) and may have a role in normal brain development, and in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Expression of this gene has been shown to be elevated in patients with pre-B cell acute lymphocytic leukemia associated with t(1;19) translocation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms (some with different subcellular localization, PMID:15004329) have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	ANKS1B (Ankyrin Repeat And Sterile Alpha Motif Domain Containing 1B) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include ephrin receptor binding. An important paralog of this gene is ANKS1A.	Isoform 2 may participate in the regulation of nucleoplasmic coilin protein interactions in neuronal and transformed cells	same
ANKS6	empty	ANKS6 (Ankyrin Repeat And Sterile Alpha Motif Domain Containing 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANKS6 include nephronophthisis 16 and infantile nephronophthisis. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity. An important paralog of this gene is TANC1.	Required for renal function.	same
ANKRD43	empty	SOWAHA (Sosondowah Ankyrin Repeat Domain Family Member A) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is SOWAHD.	empty	diff
ANKS4B	empty	ANKS4B (Ankyrin Repeat And Sterile Alpha Motif Domain Containing 4B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANKS4B include maturity-onset diabetes of the young and usher syndrome.	empty	same
ANKRD54	empty	ANKRD54 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 54) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein complex binding and protein kinase regulator activity. An important paralog of this gene is ASB7.	Plays an important role in regulating intracellular signaling events associated with erythroid terminal differentiation.	same
ANKS3	empty	ANKS3 (Ankyrin Repeat And Sterile Alpha Motif Domain Containing 3) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is TANC1.	empty	same
ANKRD9	empty	ANKRD9 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 9) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
ANKRD6	empty	ANKRD6 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Wnt signaling pathway (KEGG). An important paralog of this gene is ANKRD1.	Recruits CKI-epsilon to the beta-catenin degradation complex that consists of AXN1 or AXN2 and GSK3-beta and allows efficient phosphorylation of beta-catenin, thereby inhibiting beta-catenin/Tcf signals.	same
ANKRD56	empty	SOWAHB (Sosondowah Ankyrin Repeat Domain Family Member B) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is SOWAHD.	empty	diff
ANKZF1	empty	ANKZF1 (Ankyrin Repeat And Zinc Finger Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	Involved in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-associated degradation (ERAD) pathway.	same
ANO10	The transmembrane protein encoded by this gene is a member of a family of calcium-activated chloride channels. Defects in this gene may be a cause of autosomal recessive spinocerebellar ataxia-10. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]	ANO10 (Anoctamin 10) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANO10 include spinocerebellar ataxia, autosomal recessive 10 and adult-onset autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia. Among its related pathways are Ion channel transport and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include intracellular calcium activated chloride channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is ANO5.	Does not exhibit calcium-activated chloride channel (CaCC) activity. Can inhibit the activity of ANO1.	same
ANKRD5	empty	ANKEF1 (Ankyrin Repeat And EF-Hand Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANKEF1 include colorectal cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is RFXANK.	empty	diff
ANO3	empty	ANO3 (Anoctamin 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANO3 include dystonia 24 and autosomal dominant cervical dystonia. Among its related pathways are Ion channel transport and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include intracellular calcium activated chloride channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is ANO5.	Has calcium-dependent phospholipid scramblase activity; scrambles phosphatidylcholine and galactosylceramide. Seems to act as potassium channel regulator and may inhibit pain signaling; can facilitate KCNT1/Slack channel activity by promoting its full single-channel conductance at very low sodium concentrations and by increasing its sodium sensitivity (By similarity). Does not exhibit calcium-activated chloride channel (CaCC) activity.	same
ANO1	empty	ANO1 (Anoctamin 1, Calcium Activated Chloride Channel) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANO1 include small intestinal sarcoma and oral cancer. Among its related pathways are Ion channel transport and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include intracellular calcium activated chloride channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is ANO5.	Calcium-activated chloride channel (CaCC) which plays a role in transepithelial anion transport and smooth muscle contraction. Required for the normal functioning of the interstitial cells of Cajal (ICCs) which generate electrical pacemaker activity in gastrointestinal smooth muscles. Acts as a major contributor to basal and stimulated chloride conductance in airway epithelial cells and plays an important role in tracheal cartilage development.	same
ANKRD52	empty	ANKRD52 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 52) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ANKRD65.	Putative regulatory subunit of protein phosphatase 6 (PP6) that may be involved in the recognition of phosphoprotein substrates	same
ANO4	empty	ANO4 (Anoctamin 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Ion channel transport and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. An important paralog of this gene is ANO5.	Has calcium-dependent phospholipid scramblase activity; scrambles phosphatidylserine, phosphatidylcholine and galactosylceramide. Does not exhibit calcium-activated chloride channel (CaCC) activity.	same
ANKS1A	empty	ANKS1A (Ankyrin Repeat And Sterile Alpha Motif Domain Containing 1A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANKS1A include adjustment disorder. GO annotations related to this gene include ephrin receptor binding. An important paralog of this gene is CASKIN2.	Regulator of different signaling pathways. Regulates EPHA8 receptor tyrosine kinase signaling to control cell migration and neurite retraction (By similarity).	same
ANO7	This prostate-specific gene encodes a cytoplasmic protein, as well as a polytopic membrane protein which may serve as a target in prostate cancer diagnosis and immunotherapy. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	ANO7 (Anoctamin 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANO7 include prostate cancer. Among its related pathways are Ion channel transport and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include intracellular calcium activated chloride channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is ANO5.	Has calcium-dependent phospholipid scramblase activity; scrambles phosphatidylserine, phosphatidylcholine and galactosylceramide (By similarity). Does not exhibit calcium-activated chloride channel (CaCC) activity. May play a role in cell-cell interactions.	same
ANO9	empty	ANO9 (Anoctamin 9) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Ion channel transport and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include intracellular calcium activated chloride channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is ANO5.	Has calcium-dependent phospholipid scramblase activity; scrambles phosphatidylserine, phosphatidylcholine and galactosylceramide (By similarity). Does not exhibit calcium-activated chloride channel (CaCC) activity. Can inhibit the activity of ANO1.	same
ANP32D	Phosphoprotein 32 (PP32) is a tumor suppressor that can inhibit several types of cancers, including prostate and breast cancers. The protein encoded by this gene is one of at least two proteins that are similar in amino acid sequence to PP32 and are part of the same acidic nuclear phosphoprotein gene family. However, unlike PP32, the encoded protein is tumorigenic. The tumor suppressor function of PP32 has been localized to a 25 amino acid region that is absent in the protein encoded by this gene. This gene does not contain introns. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ANP32D (Acidic (Leucine-Rich) Nuclear Phosphoprotein 32 Family, Member D) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ANP32B.	empty	same
ANP32B	empty	ANP32B (Acidic (Leucine-Rich) Nuclear Phosphoprotein 32 Family, Member B) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ANP32A.	Multifunctional protein working as a cell cycle progression factor as well as a cell survival factor. Required for the progression from the G1 to the S phase. Anti-apoptotic protein which functions as a caspase-3 inhibitor. Has no phosphatase 2A (PP2A) inhibitor activity (By similarity). Exhibits histone chaperone properties, stimulating core histones to assemble into a nucleosome.	same
ANO5	This gene encodes a member of the anoctamin family of transmembrane proteins. The encoded protein is likely a calcium activated chloride channel. Mutations in this gene have been associated with gnathodiaphyseal dysplasia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]	ANO5 (Anoctamin 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANO5 include gnathodiaphyseal dysplasia and muscular dystrophy, limb-girdle, type 2l. Among its related pathways are Ion channel transport and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include intracellular calcium activated chloride channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is ANO8.	Does not exhibit calcium-activated chloride channel (CaCC) activity	same
ANO8	empty	ANO8 (Anoctamin 8) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Ion channel transport and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include intracellular calcium activated chloride channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is ANO5.	Does not exhibit calcium-activated chloride channel (CaCC) activity	same
ANLN	This gene encodes an actin-binding protein that plays a role in cell growth and migration, and in cytokinesis. The encoded protein is thought to regulate actin cytoskeletal dynamics in podocytes, components of the glomerulus. Mutations in this gene are associated with focal segmental glomerulosclerosis 8. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014]	ANLN (Anillin, Actin Binding Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANLN include focal segmental glomerulosclerosis 8 and familial idiopathic steroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome with focal segmental hyalinosis. Among its related pathways are RB in Cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and actin binding.	Required for cytokinesis (PubMed:16040610). Essential for the structural integrity of the cleavage furrow and for completion of cleavage furrow ingression. May play a significant role in podocyte cell migration (PubMed:24676636).	same
ANP32E	empty	ANP32E (Acidic (Leucine-Rich) Nuclear Phosphoprotein 32 Family, Member E) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include phosphatase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is ANP32B.	Histone chaperone that specifically mediates the genome-wide removal of histone H2A.Z/H2AFZ from the nucleosome: removes H2A.Z/H2AFZ from its normal sites of deposition, especially from enhancer and insulator regions. Not involved in deposition of H2A.Z/H2AFZ in the nucleosome. May stabilize the evicted H2A.Z/H2AFZ-H2B dimer, thus shifting the equilibrium towards dissociation and the off-chromatin state (PubMed:24463511). Inhibits activity of protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A). Does not inhibit protein phosphatase 1. May play a role in cerebellar development and synaptogenesis.	same
ANP32A	empty	ANP32A (Acidic (Leucine-Rich) Nuclear Phosphoprotein 32 Family, Member A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANP32A include spinocerebellar degeneration. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and Granzyme Pathway. An important paralog of this gene is ANP32B.	Implicated in a number of cellular processes, including proliferation, differentiation, caspase-dependent and caspase-independent apoptosis, suppression of transformation (tumor suppressor), inhibition of protein phosphatase 2A, regulation of mRNA trafficking and stability in association with ELAVL1, and inhibition of acetyltransferases as part of the INHAT (inhibitor of histone acetyltransferases) complex. Plays a role in E4F1-mediated transcriptional repression.	same
ANP32C	Phosphoprotein 32 (PP32) is a tumor suppressor that can inhibit several types of cancers, including prostate and breast cancers. The protein encoded by this gene is one of at least two proteins that are similar in amino acid sequence to PP32 and are part of the same acidic nuclear phosphoprotein gene family. However, unlike PP32, the encoded protein is tumorigenic. The tumor suppressor function of PP32 has been localized to a 25 amino acid region that is divergent between PP32 and the protein encoded by this gene. This gene does not contain introns. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ANP32C (Acidic (Leucine-Rich) Nuclear Phosphoprotein 32 Family, Member C) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANP32C include hiv-1.	empty	same
ANO6	This gene encodes a multi-pass transmembrane protein that belongs to the anoctamin family. This protein is an essential component for the calcium-dependent exposure of phosphatidylserine on the cell surface. The scrambling of phospholipid occurs in various biological systems, such as when blood platelets are activated, they expose phosphatidylserine to trigger the clotting system. Mutations in this gene are associated with Scott syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]	ANO6 (Anoctamin 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANO6 include scott syndrome. Among its related pathways are Ion channel transport and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include voltage-gated ion channel activity and calcium activated cation channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is ANO5.	Small-conductance calcium-activated nonselective cation (SCAN) channel which acts as a regulator of phospholipid scrambling in platelets and osteoblasts. Phospholipid scrambling results in surface exposure of phosphatidylserine which in platelets is essential to trigger the clotting system whereas in osteoblasts is essential for the deposition of hydroxyapatite during bone mineralization. Has calcium-dependent phospholipid scramblase activity; scrambles phosphatidylserine, phosphatidylcholine and galactosylceramide (By similarity). Can generate outwardly rectifying chloride channel currents in airway epithelial cells and Jurkat T lymphocytes.	same
ANPEP	Aminopeptidase N is located in the small-intestinal and renal microvillar membrane, and also in other plasma membranes. In the small intestine aminopeptidase N plays a role in the final digestion of peptides generated from hydrolysis of proteins by gastric and pancreatic proteases. Its function in proximal tubular epithelial cells and other cell types is less clear. The large extracellular carboxyterminal domain contains a pentapeptide consensus sequence characteristic of members of the zinc-binding metalloproteinase superfamily. Sequence comparisons with known enzymes of this class showed that CD13 and aminopeptidase N are identical. The latter enzyme was thought to be involved in the metabolism of regulatory peptides by diverse cell types, including small intestinal and renal tubular epithelial cells, macrophages, granulocytes, and synaptic membranes from the CNS. Human aminopeptidase N is a receptor for one strain of human coronavirus that is an important cause of upper respiratory tract infections. Defects in this gene appear to be a cause of various types of leukemia or lymphoma. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ANPEP (Alanyl (Membrane) Aminopeptidase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANPEP include gastroenteritis and familial chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Among its related pathways are Cardiac Progenitor Differentiation and Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor activity and aminopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ERAP1.	Broad specificity aminopeptidase. Plays a role in the final digestion of peptides generated from hydrolysis of proteins by gastric and pancreatic proteases. May play a critical role in the pathogenesis of cholesterol gallstone disease. May be involved in the metabolism of regulatory peptides of diverse cell types, responsible for the processing of peptide hormones, such as angiotensin III and IV, neuropeptides, and chemokines. Found to cleave antigen peptides bound to major histocompatibility complex class II molecules of presenting cells and to degrade neurotransmitters at synaptic junctions. Is also implicated as a regulator of IL-8 bioavailability in the endometrium, and therefore may contribute to the regulation of angiogenesis. Is used as a marker for acute myeloid leukemia and plays a role in tumor invasion. In case of human coronavirus 229E (HCoV-229E) infection, serves as receptor for HCoV-229E spike glycoprotein. Mediates as well human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) infection.	same
ANUBL1	empty	ZFAND4 (Zinc Finger, AN1-Type Domain 4) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is UBB.	empty	diff
ANTXR1	This gene encodes a type I transmembrane protein and is a tumor-specific endothelial marker that has been implicated in colorectal cancer. The encoded protein has been shown to also be a docking protein or receptor for Bacillus anthracis toxin, the causative agent of the disease, anthrax. The binding of the protective antigen (PA) component, of the tripartite anthrax toxin, to this receptor protein mediates delivery of toxin components to the cytosol of cells. Once inside the cell, the other two components of anthrax toxin, edema factor (EF) and lethal factor (LF) disrupt normal cellular processes. Three alternatively spliced variants that encode different protein isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]	ANTXR1 (Anthrax Toxin Receptor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANTXR1 include gapo syndrome and familial capillary hemangioma. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and Apoptotic Pathways in Synovial Fibroblasts. GO annotations related to this gene include transmembrane signaling receptor activity and collagen binding. An important paralog of this gene is ANTXR2.	Plays a role in cell attachment and migration. Interacts with extracellular matrix proteins and with the actin cytoskeleton. Mediates adhesion of cells to type 1 collagen and gelatin, reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton and promotes cell spreading. Plays a role in the angiogenic response of cultured umbilical vein endothelial cells.	same
ANTXR2	This gene encodes a receptor for anthrax toxin. The protein binds to collagen IV and laminin, suggesting that it may be involved in extracellular matrix adhesion. Mutations in this gene cause juvenile hyaline fibromatosis and infantile systemic hyalinosis. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]	ANTXR2 (Anthrax Toxin Receptor 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANTXR2 include hyaline fibromatosis syndrome and hyalinosis, inherited systemic. Among its related pathways are Cellular roles of Anthrax toxin. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is ANTXR1.	Necessary for cellular interactions with laminin and the extracellular matrix.	same
ANXA11	This gene encodes a member of the annexin family, a group of calcium-dependent phospholipid-binding proteins. Annexins have unique N-terminal domains and conserved C-terminal domains, which contain the calcium-dependent phospholipid-binding sites. The encoded protein is a 56-kD antigen recognized by sera from patients with various autoimmune diseases. Several transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, May 2013]	ANXA11 (Annexin A11) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and calcium-dependent phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is ANXA9.	Binds specifically to calcyclin in a calcium-dependent manner (By similarity). Required for midbody formation and completion of the terminal phase of cytokinesis.	same
ANTXRL	empty	ANTXRL (Anthrax Toxin Receptor-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor activity.	empty	same
ANXA2P1	empty	ANXA2P1 (Annexin A2 Pseudogene 1) is a Pseudogene.	empty	same
ANXA2P2	empty	ANXA2P2 (Annexin A2 Pseudogene 2) is a Pseudogene. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and calcium-dependent phospholipid binding.	Calcium-regulated membrane-binding protein whose affinity for calcium is greatly enhanced by anionic phospholipids. It binds two calcium ions with high affinity. May be involved in heat-stress response.	same
ANXA1	This gene encodes a membrane-localized protein that binds phospholipids. This protein inhibits phospholipase A2 and has anti-inflammatory activity. Loss of function or expression of this gene has been detected in multiple tumors. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2014]	ANXA1 (Annexin A1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is ANXA9.	Calcium/phospholipid-binding protein which promotes membrane fusion and is involved in exocytosis. This protein regulates phospholipase A2 activity. It seems to bind from two to four calcium ions with high affinity	same
ANXA5	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the annexin family of calcium-dependent phospholipid binding proteins some of which have been implicated in membrane-related events along exocytotic and endocytotic pathways. Annexin 5 is a phospholipase A2 and protein kinase C inhibitory protein with calcium channel activity and a potential role in cellular signal transduction, inflammation, growth and differentiation. Annexin 5 has also been described as placental anticoagulant protein I, vascular anticoagulant-alpha, endonexin II, lipocortin V, placental protein 4 and anchorin CII. The gene spans 29 kb containing 13 exons, and encodes a single transcript of approximately 1.6 kb and a protein product with a molecular weight of about 35 kDa. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ANXA5 (Annexin A5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANXA5 include pregnancy loss, recurrent 3 and amelanotic melanoma. Among its related pathways are Ca, cAMP and Lipid Signaling and Regulation of CFTR activity (norm and CF). GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and calcium-dependent phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is ANXA9.	This protein is an anticoagulant protein that acts as an indirect inhibitor of the thromboplastin-specific complex, which is involved in the blood coagulation cascade	same
ANO2	ANO2 belongs to a family of calcium-activated chloride channels (CaCCs) (reviewed by Hartzell et al., 2009 [PubMed 19015192]).[supplied by OMIM, Jan 2011]	ANO2 (Anoctamin 2, Calcium Activated Chloride Channel) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Ion channel transport and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include intracellular calcium activated chloride channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is ANO5.	Calcium-activated chloride channel (CaCC) which may play a role in olfactory signal transduction. Odorant molecules bind to odor-sensing receptors (OSRs), leading to an increase in calcium entry that activates CaCC current which amplifies the depolarization of the OSR cells, ANO2 seems to be the underlying chloride channel involved in this process. May mediate light perception amplification in retina.	same
ANXA2P3	empty	ANXA2P3 (Annexin A2 Pseudogene 3) is a Pseudogene.	empty	same
ANXA2	This gene encodes a member of the annexin family. Members of this calcium-dependent phospholipid-binding protein family play a role in the regulation of cellular growth and in signal transduction pathways. This protein functions as an autocrine factor which heightens osteoclast formation and bone resorption. This gene has three pseudogenes located on chromosomes 4, 9 and 10, respectively. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ANXA2 (Annexin A2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Tyrosine Kinases / Adaptors and Ca, cAMP and Lipid Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and cytoskeletal protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is ANXA9.	Calcium-regulated membrane-binding protein whose affinity for calcium is greatly enhanced by anionic phospholipids. It binds two calcium ions with high affinity. May be involved in heat-stress response	same
ANXA3	This gene encodes a member of the annexin family. Members of this calcium-dependent phospholipid-binding protein family play a role in the regulation of cellular growth and in signal transduction pathways. This protein functions in the inhibition of phopholipase A2 and cleavage of inositol 1,2-cyclic phosphate to form inositol 1-phosphate. This protein may also play a role in anti-coagulation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ANXA3 (Annexin A3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Prostaglandin Synthesis and Regulation. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and phospholipase A2 inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is ANXA9.	Inhibitor of phospholipase A2, also possesses anti-coagulant properties. Also cleaves the cyclic bond of inositol 1,2-cyclic phosphate to form inositol 1-phosphate	same
ANXA8L2	This gene encodes a member of the annexin family of evolutionarily conserved Ca2+ and phospholipid binding proteins. The encoded protein may function as an an anticoagulant that indirectly inhibits the thromboplastin-specific complex. Overexpression of this gene has been associated with acute myelocytic leukemia. A highly similar duplicated copy of this gene is found in close proximity on the long arm of chromosome 10. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2014]	ANXA8L1 (Annexin A8-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Prostaglandin Synthesis and Regulation. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and calcium-dependent phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is ANXA8.	empty	diff
ANXA13	This gene encodes a member of the annexin family. Members of this calcium-dependent phospholipid-binding protein family play a role in the regulation of cellular growth and in signal transduction pathways. The specific function of this gene has not yet been determined; however, it is associated with the plasma membrane of undifferentiated, proliferating endothelial cells and differentiated villus enterocytes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ANXA13 (Annexin A13) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and calcium-dependent phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is ANXA9.	empty	same
ANXA9	The annexins are a family of calcium-dependent phospholipid-binding proteins. Members of the annexin family contain 4 internal repeat domains, each of which includes a type II calcium-binding site. The calcium-binding sites are required for annexins to aggregate and cooperatively bind anionic phospholipids and extracellular matrix proteins. This gene encodes a divergent member of the annexin protein family in which all four homologous type II calcium-binding sites in the conserved tetrad core contain amino acid substitutions that ablate their function. However, structural analysis suggests that the conserved putative ion channel formed by the tetrad core is intact. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ANXA9 (Annexin A9) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is ANXA4.	Low affinity receptor for acetylcholine known to be targeted by disease-causing pemphigus vulgaris antibodies in keratinocytes.	same
ANXA4	Annexin IV (ANX4) belongs to the annexin family of calcium-dependent phospholipid binding proteins. Although their functions are still not clearly defined, several members of the annexin family have been implicated in membrane-related events along exocytotic and endocytotic pathways. ANX4 has 45 to 59% identity with other members of its family and shares a similar size and exon-intron organization. Isolated from human placenta, ANX4 encodes a protein that has possible interactions with ATP, and has in vitro anticoagulant activity and also inhibits phospholipase A2 activity. ANX4 is almost exclusively expressed in epithelial cells. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ANXA4 (Annexin A4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANXA4 include papillary serous adenocarcinoma and gonorrhea. Among its related pathways are Prostaglandin Synthesis and Regulation. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and phospholipase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is ANXA9.	Calcium/phospholipid-binding protein which promotes membrane fusion and is involved in exocytosis.	same
ANXA10	This gene encodes a member of the annexin family. Members of this calcium-dependent phospholipid-binding protein family play a role in the regulation of cellular growth and in signal transduction pathways. The function of this gene has not yet been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ANXA10 (Annexin A10) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and calcium-dependent phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is ANXA9.	empty	same
AOAH	This locus encodes both the light and heavy subunits of acyloxyacyl hydrolase. The encoded enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of acyloxylacyl-linked fatty acyl chains from bacterial lipopolysaccharides, effectively detoxifying these molecules. The encoded protein may play a role in modulating host inflammatory response to gram-negative bacteria. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]	AOAH (Acyloxyacyl Hydrolase (Neutrophil)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include lipoprotein lipase activity and acyloxyacyl hydrolase activity.	Removes the secondary (acyloxyacyl-linked) fatty acyl chains from the lipid A region of bacterial lipopolysaccharides	same
AOC2	Copper amine oxidases catalyze the oxidative conversion of amines to aldehydes and ammonia in the presence of copper and quinone cofactor. This gene shows high sequence similarity to copper amine oxidases from various species ranging from bacteria to mammals. The protein contains several conserved motifs including the active site of amine oxidases and the histidine residues that likely bind copper. It may be a critical modulator of signal transmission in retina, possibly by degrading the biogenic amines dopamine, histamine, and putrescine. This gene may be a candidate gene for hereditary ocular diseases. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AOC2 (Amine Oxidase, Copper Containing 2 (Retina-Specific)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AOC2 include dissecting aortic aneurysm. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Glycine, serine and threonine metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and quinone binding. An important paralog of this gene is AOC1.	Has a monoamine oxidase activity with substrate specificity for 2-phenylethylamine and tryptamine. May play a role in adipogenesis. May be a critical modulator of signal transmission in retina.	same
AOC3	This gene encodes a member of the semicarbazide-sensitive amine oxidase family. Copper amine oxidases catalyze the oxidative conversion of amines to aldehydes in the presence of copper and quinone cofactor. The encoded protein is localized to the cell surface, has adhesive properties as well as monoamine oxidase activity, and may be involved in leukocyte trafficking. Alterations in levels of the encoded protein may be associated with many diseases, including diabetes mellitus. A pseudogene of this gene has been described and is located approximately 9-kb downstream on the same chromosome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2013]	AOC3 (Amine Oxidase, Copper Containing 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AOC3 include coronary artery vasospasm and obesity. Among its related pathways are Integrin Pathway and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and protein heterodimerization activity. An important paralog of this gene is AOC2.	Cell adhesion protein that participates in lymphocyte extravasation and recirculation by mediating the binding of lymphocytes to peripheral lymph node vascular endothelial cells in an L-selectin-independent fashion. Has semicarbazide-sensitive (SSAO) monoamine oxidase activity. May play a role in adipogenesis.	same
ANXA8	This gene encodes a member of the annexin family of evolutionarily conserved Ca2+ and phospholipid binding proteins. The encoded protein may function as an an anticoagulant that indirectly inhibits the thromboplastin-specific complex. Overexpression of this gene has been associated with acute myelocytic leukemia. A highly similar duplicated copy of this gene is found in close proximity on the long arm of chromosome 10. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ANXA8 (Annexin A8) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and calcium-dependent phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is ANXA8L1.	This protein is an anticoagulant protein that acts as an indirect inhibitor of the thromboplastin-specific complex, which is involved in the blood coagulation cascade	same
AOX2P	empty	AOX2P (Aldehyde Oxidase 2 Pseudogene) is a Pseudogene. Among its related pathways are Nicotine Pathway, Pharmacokinetics.	empty	same
ANXA8L1	This gene encodes a member of the annexin family of evolutionarily conserved Ca2+ and phospholipid binding proteins. The encoded protein may function as an an anticoagulant that indirectly inhibits the thromboplastin-specific complex. Overexpression of this gene has been associated with acute myelocytic leukemia. A highly similar duplicated copy of this gene is found in close proximity on the long arm of chromosome 10. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2014]	ANXA8L1 (Annexin A8-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Prostaglandin Synthesis and Regulation. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and calcium-dependent phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is ANXA8.	empty	same
ANXA7	Annexin VII is a member of the annexin family of calcium-dependent phospholipid binding proteins.The Annexin VII gene contains 14 exons and spans approximately 34 kb of DNA. An alternatively spliced cassette exon results in two mRNA transcripts of 2.0 and 2.4 kb which are predicted to generate two protein isoforms differing in their N-terminal domain. The alternative splicing event is tissue specific and the mRNA containing the cassette exon is prevalent in brain, heart and skeletal muscle. The transcripts also differ in their 3'-non coding regions by the use of two alternative poly(A) signals. Annexin VII encodes a protein with a molecular weight of approximately 51 kDa with a unique, highly hydrophobic N-terminal domain of 167 amino acids and a conserved C-terminal region of 299 amino acids. The latter domain is composed of alternating hydrophobic and hydrophilic segments. Structural analysis of the protein suggests that Annexin VII is a membrane binding protein with diverse properties, including voltage-sensitive calcium channel activity, ion selectivity and membrane fusion. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ANXA7 (Annexin A7) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANXA7 include hereditary spherocytosis. Among its related pathways are Cytoskeletal Signaling and Ca, cAMP and Lipid Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and calcium-dependent phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is ANXA9.	Calcium/phospholipid-binding protein which promotes membrane fusion and is involved in exocytosis	same
AP1AR	empty	AP1AR (Adaptor-Related Protein Complex 1 Associated Regulatory Protein) is a Protein Coding gene.	Necessary for adaptor protein complex 1 (AP-1)-dependent transport between the trans-Golgi network and endosomes. Regulates the membrane association of AP1G1/gamma1-adaptin, one of the subunits of the AP-1 adaptor complex. The direct interaction with AP1G1/gamma1-adaptin attenuates the release of the AP-1 complex from membranes. Regulates endosomal membrane traffic via association with AP-1 and KIF5B thus linking kinesin-based plus-end-directed microtubular transport to AP-1-dependent membrane traffic. May act as effector of AP-1 in calcium-induced endo-lysosome secretion. Inhibits Arp2/3 complex function; negatively regulates cell spreading, size and motility via intracellular sequestration of the Arp2/3 complex.	same
AOX1	Aldehyde oxidase produces hydrogen peroxide and, under certain conditions, can catalyze the formation of superoxide. Aldehyde oxidase is a candidate gene for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AOX1 (Aldehyde Oxidase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AOX1 include end stage renal failure and xanthinuria. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and flavin adenine dinucleotide binding. An important paralog of this gene is XDH.	Oxidase with broad substrate specificity, oxidizing aromatic azaheterocycles, such as N1-methylnicotinamide and N-methylphthalazinium, as well as aldehydes, such as benzaldehyde, retinal, pyridoxal, and vanillin. Plays a key role in the metabolism of xenobiotics and drugs containing aromatic azaheterocyclic substituents. Participates in the bioactivation of prodrugs such as famciclovir, catalyzing the oxidation step from 6-deoxypenciclovir to penciclovir, which is a potent antiviral agent. Is probably involved in the regulation of reactive oxygen species homeostasis. May be a prominent source of superoxide generation via the one-electron reduction of molecular oxygen. Also may catalyze nitric oxide (NO) production via the reduction of nitrite to NO with NADH or aldehyde as electron donor. May play a role in adipogenesis.	same
AP1B1	Adaptor protein complex 1 is found at the cytoplasmic face of coated vesicles located at the Golgi complex, where it mediates both the recruitment of clathrin to the membrane and the recognition of sorting signals within the cytosolic tails of transmembrane receptors. This complex is a heterotetramer composed of two large, one medium, and one small adaptin subunit. The protein encoded by this gene serves as one of the large subunits of this complex and is a member of the adaptin protein family. This gene is a candidate meningioma gene. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]	AP1B1 (Adaptor-Related Protein Complex 1, Beta 1 Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Disease and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity and protein transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is AP4B1.	Subunit of clathrin-associated adaptor protein complex 1 that plays a role in protein sorting in the late-Golgi/trans-Golgi network (TGN) and/or endosomes. The AP complexes mediate both the recruitment of clathrin to membranes and the recognition of sorting signals within the cytosolic tails of transmembrane cargo molecules	same
AP1G2	Adaptins are important components of clathrin-coated vesicles transporting ligand-receptor complexes from the plasma membrane or from the trans-Golgi network to lysosomes. The adaptin family of proteins is compsed of four classes of molecules named alpha, beta-, beta prime- and gamma- adaptins. Adaptins, together with medium and small subunits, form a heterotetrameric complex called an adaptor, whose role is to promote the formation of clathrin-coated pits and vesicles. The protein encoded by this gene is a gamma-adaptin protein and it belongs to the adaptor complexes large subunits family. This protein along with the complex is thought to function at some trafficking step in the complex pathways between the trans-Golgi network and the cell surface. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene exist, but their full-length nature is not known. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2013]	AP1G2 (Adaptor-Related Protein Complex 1, Gamma 2 Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AP1G2 include hiv-1. Among its related pathways are Lysosome and Delta508-CFTR traffic / ER-to-Golgi in CF. GO annotations related to this gene include protein transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is AP4E1.	May function in protein sorting in late endosomes or multivesucular bodies (MVBs). Involved in MVB-assisted maturation of hepatitis B virus (HBV).	same
AP1G1	Adaptins are important components of clathrin-coated vesicles transporting ligand-receptor complexes from the plasma membrane or from the trans-Golgi network to lysosomes. The adaptin family of proteins is composed of four classes of molecules named alpha, beta-, beta prime- and gamma- adaptins. Adaptins, together with medium and small subunits, form a heterotetrameric complex called an adaptor, whose role is to promote the formation of clathrin-coated pits and vesicles. The protein encoded by this gene is a gamma-adaptin protein and it belongs to the adaptor complexes large subunits family. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AP1G1 (Adaptor-Related Protein Complex 1, Gamma 1 Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AP1G1 include hypoactive sexual desire disorder. Among its related pathways are Disease and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity and kinesin binding. An important paralog of this gene is AP1G2.	Subunit of clathrin-associated adaptor protein complex 1 that plays a role in protein sorting in the late-Golgi/trans-Golgi network (TGN) and/or endosomes. The AP complexes mediate both the recruitment of clathrin to membranes and the recognition of sorting signals within the cytosolic tails of transmembrane cargo molecules	same
AP1S2	Adaptor protein complex 1 is found at the cytoplasmic face of coated vesicles located at the Golgi complex, where it mediates both the recruitment of clathrin to the membrane and the recognition of sorting signals within the cytosolic tails of transmembrane receptors. This complex is a heterotetramer composed of two large, one medium, and one small adaptin subunit. The protein encoded by this gene serves as the small subunit of this complex and is a member of the adaptin protein family. Transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]	AP1S2 (Adaptor-Related Protein Complex 1, Sigma 2 Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AP1S2 include mental retardation, x-linked syndromic 5 and dandy-walker malformation with intellectual disability, basal ganglia disease and seizures. Among its related pathways are Disease and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. GO annotations related to this gene include protein transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is AP1S1.	Subunit of clathrin-associated adaptor protein complex 1 that plays a role in protein sorting in the late-Golgi/trans-Golgi network (TGN) and/or endosomes. The AP complexes mediate both the recruitment of clathrin to membranes and the recognition of sorting signals within the cytosolic tails of transmembrane cargo molecules	same
AP2A2	empty	AP2A2 (Adaptor-Related Protein Complex 2, Alpha 2 Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AP2A2 include wolff-parkinson-white syndrome. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include lipid binding and protein transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is AP2A1.	Component of the adaptor protein complex 2 (AP-2). Adaptor protein complexes function in protein transport via transport vesicles in different membrane traffic pathways. Adaptor protein complexes are vesicle coat components and appear to be involved in cargo selection and vesicle formation. AP-2 is involved in clathrin-dependent endocytosis in which cargo proteins are incorporated into vesicles surrounded by clathrin (clathrin-coated vesicles, CCVs) which are destined for fusion with the early endosome. The clathrin lattice serves as a mechanical scaffold but is itself unable to bind directly to membrane components. Clathrin-associated adaptor protein (AP) complexes which can bind directly to both the clathrin lattice and to the lipid and protein components of membranes are considered to be the major clathrin adaptors contributing the CCV formation. AP-2 also serves as a cargo receptor to selectively sort the membrane proteins involved in receptor-mediated endocytosis. AP-2 seems to play a role in the recycling of synaptic vesicle membranes from the presynaptic surface. AP-2 recognizes Y-X-X-[FILMV] (Y-X-X-Phi) and [ED]-X-X-X-L-[LI] endocytosis signal motifs within the cytosolic tails of transmembrane cargo molecules. AP-2 may also play a role in maintaining normal post-endocytic trafficking through the ARF6-regulated, non-clathrin pathway. The AP-2 alpha subunit binds polyphosphoinositide-containing lipids, positioning AP-2 on the membrane. The AP-2 alpha subunit acts via its C-terminal appendage domain as a scaffolding platform for endocytic accessory proteins. The AP-2 alpha and AP-2 sigma subunits are thought to contribute to the recognition of the [ED]-X-X-X-L-[LI] motif (By similarity).	same
AP3D1	The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of the AP3 adaptor-like complex, which is not clathrin-associated, but is associated with the golgi region, as well as more peripheral structures. The AP-3 complex facilitates the budding of vesicles from the golgi membrane, and may be directly involved in trafficking to lysosomes. This subunit is implicated in intracellular biogenesis and trafficking of pigment granules, and possibly platelet dense granules and neurotransmitter vesicles. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]	AP3D1 (Adaptor-Related Protein Complex 3, Delta 1 Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Lysosome. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity and protein transporter activity.	Part of the AP-3 complex, an adaptor-related complex which is not clathrin-associated. The complex is associated with the Golgi region as well as more peripheral structures. It facilitates the budding of vesicles from the Golgi membrane and may be directly involved in trafficking to lysosomes. In concert with the BLOC-1 complex, AP-3 is required to target cargos into vesicles assembled at cell bodies for delivery into neurites and nerve terminals	same
AP1S3	This gene encodes a member of the adaptor-related protein complex 1, sigma subunit genes. The encoded protein is a component of adaptor protein complex 1 (AP-1), one of the AP complexes involved in claathrin-mediated vesicular transport from the Golgi or endosomes. Disruption of the pathway for display of HIV-1 antigens, which prevents recognition of the virus by cytotoxic T cells, has been shown to involve the AP-1 complex (PMID: 15569716). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2014]	AP1S3 (Adaptor-Related Protein Complex 1, Sigma 3 Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AP1S3 include psoriasis 15, pustular and psoriasis 14, pustular. Among its related pathways are Disease and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. GO annotations related to this gene include protein transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is AP1S2.	Subunit of clathrin-associated adaptor protein complex 1 that plays a role in protein sorting in the late-Golgi/trans-Golgi network (TGN) and/or endosomes. The AP complexes mediate both the recruitment of clathrin to membranes and the recognition of sorting signals within the cytosolic tails of transmembrane cargo molecules. Involved in TLR3 trafficking (PubMed:24791904).	same
AP2S1	One of two major clathrin-associated adaptor complexes, AP-2, is a heterotetramer which is associated with the plasma membrane. This complex is composed of two large chains, a medium chain, and a small chain. This gene encodes the small chain of this complex. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]	AP2S1 (Adaptor-Related Protein Complex 2, Sigma 1 Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AP2S1 include hypocalciuric hypercalcemia, familial, type iii and familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity and protein transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is AP1S2.	Component of the adaptor protein complex 2 (AP-2). Adaptor protein complexes function in protein Transport via Transport vesicles in different membrane traffic pathways. Adaptor protein complexes are vesicle coat components and appear to be involved in cargo selection and vesicle formation. AP-2 is involved in clathrin-dependent endocytosis in which cargo proteins are incorporated into vesicles surrounded by clathrin (clathrin-coated vesicles, CCVs) which are destined for fusion with the early endosome. The clathrin lattice serves as a mechanical scaffold but is itself unable to bind directly to membrane components. Clathrin-associated adaptor protein (AP) complexes which can bind directly to both the clathrin lattice and to the lipid and protein components of membranes are considered to be the major clathrin adaptors contributing the CCV formation. AP-2 also serves as a cargo receptor to selectively sort the membrane proteins involved in receptor-mediated endocytosis. AP-2 seems to play a role in the recycling of synaptic vesicle membranes from the presynaptic surface. AP-2 recognizes Y-X-X-[FILMV] (Y-X-X-Phi) and [ED]-X-X-X-L-[LI] endocytosis signal motifs within the cytosolic tails of transmembrane cargo molecules. AP-2 may also play a role in maintaining normal post-endocytic trafficking through the ARF6-regulated, non-clathrin pathway. The AP-2 alpha and AP-2 sigma subunits are thought to contribute to the recognition of the [ED]-X-X-X-L-[LI] motif (By similarity). May also play a role in extracellular calcium homeostasis.	same
AP2B1	The protein encoded by this gene is one of two large chain components of the assembly protein complex 2, which serves to link clathrin to receptors in coated vesicles. The encoded protein is found on the cytoplasmic face of coated vesicles in the plasma membrane. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AP2B1 (Adaptor-Related Protein Complex 2, Beta 1 Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include protein complex binding and clathrin binding. An important paralog of this gene is AP4B1.	Component of the adaptor protein complex 2 (AP-2). Adaptor protein complexes function in protein transport via transport vesicles in different membrane traffic pathways. Adaptor protein complexes are vesicle coat components and appear to be involved in cargo selection and vesicle formation. AP-2 is involved in clathrin-dependent endocytosis in which cargo proteins are incorporated into vesicles surrounded by clathrin (clathrin-coated vesicles, CCVs) which are destined for fusion with the early endosome. The clathrin lattice serves as a mechanical scaffold but is itself unable to bind directly to membrane components. Clathrin-associated adaptor protein (AP) complexes which can bind directly to both the clathrin lattice and to the lipid and protein components of membranes are considered to be the major clathrin adaptors contributing the CCV formation. AP-2 also serves as a cargo receptor to selectively sort the membrane proteins involved in receptor-mediated endocytosis. AP-2 seems to play a role in the recycling of synaptic vesicle membranes from the presynaptic surface. AP-2 recognizes Y-X-X-[FILMV] (Y-X-X-Phi) and [ED]-X-X-X-L-[LI] endocytosis signal motifs within the cytosolic tails of transmembrane cargo molecules. AP-2 may also play a role in maintaining normal post-endocytic trafficking through the ARF6-regulated, non-clathrin pathway. The AP-2 beta subunit acts via its C-terminal appendage domain as a scaffolding platform for endocytic accessory proteins; at least some clathrin-associated sorting proteins (CLASPs) are recognized by their [DE]-X(1,2)-F-X-X-[FL]-X-X-X-R motif. The AP-2 beta subunit binds to clathrin heavy chain, promoting clathrin lattice assembly; clathrin displaces at least some CLASPs from AP2B1 which probably then can be positioned for further coat assembly.	same
AP3M1	The protein encoded by this gene is the medium subunit of AP-3, which is an adaptor-related protein complex associated with the Golgi region as well as more peripheral intracellular structures. AP-3 facilitates the budding of vesicles from the Golgi membrane and may be directly involved in protein sorting to the endosomal/lysosomal system. AP-3 is a heterotetrameric protein complex composed of two large subunits (delta and beta3), a medium subunit (mu3), and a small subunit (sigma 3). Mutations in one of the large subunits of AP-3 have been associated with the Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome, a genetic disorder characterized by defective lysosome-related organelles. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been observed. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AP3M1 (Adaptor-Related Protein Complex 3, Mu 1 Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AP3M1 include hermansky-pudlak syndrome. Among its related pathways are Lysosome and Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein. An important paralog of this gene is AP1M2.	Part of the AP-3 complex, an adaptor-related complex which is not clathrin-associated. The complex is associated with the Golgi region as well as more peripheral structures. It facilitates the budding of vesicles from the Golgi membrane and may be directly involved in trafficking to lysosomes. In concert with the BLOC-1 complex, AP-3 is required to target cargos into vesicles assembled at cell bodies for delivery into neurites and nerve terminals	same
AP1M1	The protein encoded by this gene is the medium chain of the trans-Golgi network clathrin-associated protein complex AP-1. The other components of this complex are beta-prime-adaptin, gamma-adaptin, and the small chain AP1S1. This complex is located at the Golgi vesicle and links clathrin to receptors in coated vesicles. These vesicles are involved in endocytosis and Golgi processing. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct protein isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AP1M1 (Adaptor-Related Protein Complex 1, Mu 1 Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AP1M1 include hiv-1. Among its related pathways are Disease and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. An important paralog of this gene is AP1M2.	Subunit of clathrin-associated adaptor protein complex 1 that plays a role in protein sorting in the trans-Golgi network (TGN) and endosomes. The AP complexes mediate the recruitment of clathrin to membranes and the recognition of sorting signals within the cytosolic tails of transmembrane cargo molecules	same
AP2A1	This gene encodes the alpha 1 adaptin subunit of the adaptor protein 2 (AP-2) complex found in clathrin coated vesicles. The AP-2 complex is a heterotetramer consisting of two large adaptins (alpha or beta), a medium adaptin (mu), and a small adaptin (sigma). The complex is part of the protein coat on the cytoplasmic face of coated vesicles which links clathrin to receptors in vesicles. Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants encoding two different isoforms. A third transcript variant has been described, but its full length nature has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AP2A1 (Adaptor-Related Protein Complex 2, Alpha 1 Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include protein C-terminus binding and protein transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is AP2A2.	Component of the adaptor protein complex 2 (AP-2). Adaptor protein complexes function in protein transport via transport vesicles in different membrane traffic pathways. Adaptor protein complexes are vesicle coat components and appear to be involved in cargo selection and vesicle formation. AP-2 is involved in clathrin-dependent endocytosis in which cargo proteins are incorporated into vesicles surrounded by clathrin (clathrin-coated vesicles, CCVs) which are destined for fusion with the early endosome. The clathrin lattice serves as a mechanical scaffold but is itself unable to bind directly to membrane components. Clathrin-associated adaptor protein (AP) complexes which can bind directly to both the clathrin lattice and to the lipid and protein components of membranes are considered to be the major clathrin adaptors contributing the CCV formation. AP-2 also serves as a cargo receptor to selectively sort the membrane proteins involved in receptor-mediated endocytosis. AP-2 seems to play a role in the recycling of synaptic vesicle membranes from the presynaptic surface. AP-2 recognizes Y-X-X-[FILMV] (Y-X-X-Phi) and [ED]-X-X-X-L-[LI] endocytosis signal motifs within the cytosolic tails of transmembrane cargo molecules. AP-2 may also play a role in maintaining normal post-endocytic trafficking through the ARF6-regulated, non-clathrin pathway. The AP-2 alpha subunit binds polyphosphoinositide-containing lipids, positioning AP-2 on the membrane. The AP-2 alpha subunit acts via its C-terminal appendage domain as a scaffolding platform for endocytic accessory proteins. The AP-2 alpha and AP-2 sigma subunits are thought to contribute to the recognition of the [ED]-X-X-X-L-[LI] motif (By similarity).	same
AP2M1	This gene encodes a subunit of the heterotetrameric coat assembly protein complex 2 (AP2), which belongs to the adaptor complexes medium subunits family. The encoded protein is required for the activity of a vacuolar ATPase, which is responsible for proton pumping occurring in the acidification of endosomes and lysosomes. The encoded protein may also play an important role in regulating the intracellular trafficking and function of CTLA-4 protein. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AP2M1 (Adaptor-Related Protein Complex 2, Mu 1 Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity and lipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is AP1M2.	Component of the adaptor protein complex 2 (AP-2). Adaptor protein complexes function in protein transport via transport vesicles in different membrane traffic pathways. Adaptor protein complexes are vesicle coat components and appear to be involved in cargo selection and vesicle formation. AP-2 is involved in clathrin-dependent endocytosis in which cargo proteins are incorporated into vesicles surrounded by clathrin (clathrin-coated vesicles, CCVs) which are destined for fusion with the early endosome. The clathrin lattice serves as a mechanical scaffold but is itself unable to bind directly to membrane components. Clathrin-associated adaptor protein (AP) complexes which can bind directly to both the clathrin lattice and to the lipid and protein components of membranes are considered to be the major clathrin adaptors contributing the CCV formation. AP-2 also serves as a cargo receptor to selectively sort the membrane proteins involved in receptor-mediated endocytosis. AP-2 seems to play a role in the recycling of synaptic vesicle membranes from the presynaptic surface. AP-2 recognizes Y-X-X-[FILMV] (Y-X-X-Phi) and [ED]-X-X-X-L-[LI] endocytosis signal motifs within the cytosolic tails of transmembrane cargo molecules. AP-2 may also play a role in maintaining normal post-endocytic trafficking through the ARF6-regulated, non-clathrin pathway. The AP-2 mu subunit binds to transmembrane cargo proteins; it recognizes the Y-X-X-Phi motifs. The surface region interacting with to the Y-X-X-Phi motif is inaccessible in cytosolic AP-2, but becomes accessible through a conformational change following phosphorylation of AP-2 mu subunit at Tyr-156 in membrane-associated AP-2. The membrane-specific phosphorylation event appears to involve assembled clathrin which activates the AP-2 mu kinase AAK1 (By similarity). Plays a role in endocytosis of frizzled family members upon Wnt signaling (By similarity).	same
AP3M2	This gene encodes a subunit of the heterotetrameric adaptor-related protein comlex 3 (AP-3), which belongs to the adaptor complexes medium subunits family. The AP-3 complex plays a role in protein trafficking to lysosomes and specialized organelles. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]	AP3M2 (Adaptor-Related Protein Complex 3, Mu 2 Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Lysosome. An important paralog of this gene is AP1M2.	Part of the AP-3 complex, an adaptor-related complex which is not clathrin-associated. The complex is associated with the Golgi region as well as more peripheral structures. It facilitates the budding of vesicles from the Golgi membrane and may be directly involved in trafficking to lysosomes. In concert with the BLOC-1 complex, AP-3 is required to target cargos into vesicles assembled at cell bodies for delivery into neurites and nerve terminals	same
ADAM22	empty	empty	empty	same
AP3S2	empty	AP3S2 (Adaptor-Related Protein Complex 3, Sigma 2 Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Lysosome. GO annotations related to this gene include protein transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is AP3S1.	Part of the AP-3 complex, an adaptor-related complex which is not clathrin-associated. The complex is associated with the Golgi region as well as more peripheral structures. It facilitates the budding of vesicles from the Golgi membrane and may be directly involved in trafficking to lysosomes. In concert with the BLOC-1 complex, AP-3 is required to target cargos into vesicles assembled at cell bodies for delivery into neurites and nerve terminals	same
AP3S1	empty	AP3S1 (Adaptor-Related Protein Complex 3, Sigma 1 Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Lysosome and Clathrin derived vesicle budding. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity and protein transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is AP3S2.	Part of the AP-3 complex, an adaptor-related complex which is not clathrin-associated. The complex is associated with the Golgi region as well as more peripheral structures. It facilitates the budding of vesicles from the Golgi membrane and may be directly involved in trafficking to lysosomes. In concert with the BLOC-1 complex, AP-3 is required to target cargos into vesicles assembled at cell bodies for delivery into neurites and nerve terminals	same
AP1M2	This gene encodes a subunit of the heterotetrameric adaptor-related protein comlex 1 (AP-1), which belongs to the adaptor complexes medium subunits family. This protein is capable of interacting with tyrosine-based sorting signals. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]	AP1M2 (Adaptor-Related Protein Complex 1, Mu 2 Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Disease and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. An important paralog of this gene is AP4M1.	Subunit of clathrin-associated adaptor protein complex 1 that plays a role in protein sorting in the trans-Golgi network (TGN) and endosomes. The AP complexes mediate the recruitment of clathrin to membranes and the recognition of sorting signals within the cytosolic tails of transmembrane cargo molecules	same
AP3B1	This gene encodes a protein that may play a role in organelle biogenesis associated with melanosomes, platelet dense granules, and lysosomes. The encoded protein is part of the heterotetrameric AP-3 protein complex which interacts with the scaffolding protein clathrin. Mutations in this gene are associated with Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome type 2. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2012]	AP3B1 (Adaptor-Related Protein Complex 3, Beta 1 Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AP3B1 include hermansky-pudlak syndrome 2 and hermansky-pudlak syndrome 1. Among its related pathways are Lysosome and Clathrin derived vesicle budding. GO annotations related to this gene include protein phosphatase binding. An important paralog of this gene is AP3B2.	Subunit of non-clathrin- and clathrin-associated adaptor protein complex 3 (AP-3) that plays a role in protein sorting in the late-Golgi/trans-Golgi network (TGN) and/or endosomes. The AP complexes mediate both the recruitment of clathrin to membranes and the recognition of sorting signals within the cytosolic tails of transmembrane cargo molecules. AP-3 appears to be involved in the sorting of a subset of transmembrane proteins targeted to lysosomes and lysosome-related organelles. In concert with the BLOC-1 complex, AP-3 is required to target cargos into vesicles assembled at cell bodies for delivery into neurites and nerve terminals	same
AP3B2	Adaptor protein-3 (AP3) is a heterotetrameric vesicle-coat protein complex. Some AP3 subunits are ubiquitously expressed, whereas others are expressed exclusively in neurons. The neuron-specific AP3 complex, which includes AP3B2, is thought to serve neuron-specific functions such as neurotransmitter release (Grabner et al., 2006 [PubMed 16788073]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	AP3B2 (Adaptor-Related Protein Complex 3, Beta 2 Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AP3B2 include congenital diaphragmatic hernia. Among its related pathways are Lysosome and ATM Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is AP3B1.	Subunit of non-clathrin- and clathrin-associated adaptor protein complex 3 (AP-3) that plays a role in protein sorting in the late-Golgi/trans-Golgi network (TGN) and/or endosomes. The AP complexes mediate both the recruitment of clathrin to membranes and the recognition of sorting signals within the cytosolic tails of transmembrane cargo molecules. AP-3 appears to be involved in the sorting of a subset of transmembrane proteins targeted to lysosomes and lysosome-related organelles. In concert with the BLOC-1 complex, AP-3 is required to target cargos into vesicles assembled at cell bodies for delivery into neurites and nerve terminals	same
AP1S1	The protein encoded by this gene is part of the clathrin coat assembly complex which links clathrin to receptors in coated vesicles. These vesicles are involved in endocytosis and Golgi processing. This protein, as well as beta-prime-adaptin, gamma-adaptin, and the medium (mu) chain AP47, form the AP-1 assembly protein complex located at the Golgi vesicle. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AP1S1 (Adaptor-Related Protein Complex 1, Sigma 1 Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AP1S1 include mednik syndrome and hiv-1. Among its related pathways are Disease and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. GO annotations related to this gene include protein transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is AP1S2.	Subunit of clathrin-associated adaptor protein complex 1 that plays a role in protein sorting in the late-Golgi/trans-Golgi network (TGN) and/or endosomes. The AP complexes mediate both the recruitment of clathrin to membranes and the recognition of sorting signals within the cytosolic tails of transmembrane cargo molecules.	same
AP4S1	This gene encodes a member of the adaptor complexes small subunit protein family. These proteins are components of the heterotetrameric adaptor protein complexes, which play important roles in the secretory and endocytic pathways by mediating vesicle formation and sorting of integral membrane proteins. The encoded protein is the small subunit of adaptor protein complex-4, which is associated with both clathrin- and nonclathrin-coated vesicles. Mutations in this gene are associated with spastic quadriplegic cerebral palsy-6. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene, and a pseudogene of this gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 6. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	AP4S1 (Adaptor-Related Protein Complex 4, Sigma 1 Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AP4S1 include spastic paraplegia 52, autosomal recessive and spastic paraplegia 51. Among its related pathways are Lysosome. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity and protein transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is AP1S2.	Subunit of novel type of clathrin- or non-clathrin-associated protein coat involved in targeting proteins from the trans-Golgi network (TGN) to the endosomal-lysosomal system	same
APBA1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the X11 protein family. It is a neuronal adapter protein that interacts with the Alzheimer's disease amyloid precursor protein (APP). It stabilizes APP and inhibits production of proteolytic APP fragments including the A beta peptide that is deposited in the brains of Alzheimer's disease patients. This gene product is believed to be involved in signal transduction processes. It is also regarded as a putative vesicular trafficking protein in the brain that can form a complex with the potential to couple synaptic vesicle exocytosis to neuronal cell adhesion. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	APBA1 (Amyloid Beta (A4) Precursor Protein-Binding, Family A, Member 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APBA1 include neuronal intranuclear inclusion disease. GO annotations related to this gene include protein complex binding and phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate binding. An important paralog of this gene is APBA2.	Putative function in synaptic vesicle exocytosis by binding to Munc18-1, an essential component of the synaptic vesicle exocytotic machinery. May modulate processing of the beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) and hence formation of beta-APP	same
APAF1	This gene encodes a cytoplasmic protein that initiates apoptosis. This protein contains several copies of the WD-40 domain, a caspase recruitment domain (CARD), and an ATPase domain (NB-ARC). Upon binding cytochrome c and dATP, this protein forms an oligomeric apoptosome. The apoptosome binds and cleaves caspase 9 preproprotein, releasing its mature, activated form. Activated caspase 9 stimulates the subsequent caspase cascade that commits the cell to apoptosis. Alternative splicing results in several transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	APAF1 (Apoptotic Peptidase Activating Factor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APAF1 include nonseminomatous germ cell tumor and dystrophinopathies. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and Apoptotic Pathways in Synovial Fibroblasts. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and ADP binding. An important paralog of this gene is WDR3.	Oligomeric Apaf-1 mediates the cytochrome c-dependent autocatalytic activation of pro-caspase-9 (Apaf-3), leading to the activation of caspase-3 and apoptosis. This activation requires ATP. Isoform 6 is less effective in inducing apoptosis.	same
APBA2	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the X11 protein family. It is a neuronal adapter protein that interacts with the Alzheimer's disease amyloid precursor protein (APP). It stabilizes APP and inhibits production of proteolytic APP fragments including the A beta peptide that is deposited in the brains of Alzheimer's disease patients. This gene product is believed to be involved in signal transduction processes. It is also regarded as a putative vesicular trafficking protein in the brain that can form a complex with the potential to couple synaptic vesicle exocytosis to neuronal cell adhesion. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	APBA2 (Amyloid Beta (A4) Precursor Protein-Binding, Family A, Member 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Neuroscience. GO annotations related to this gene include beta-amyloid binding. An important paralog of this gene is APBA3.	Putative function in synaptic vesicle exocytosis by binding to STXBP1, an essential component of the synaptic vesicle exocytotic machinery. May modulate processing of the beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) and hence formation of beta-APP	same
AP4M1	This gene encodes a subunit of the heterotetrameric AP-4 complex. The encoded protein belongs to the adaptor complexes medium subunits family. This AP-4 complex is involved in the recognition and sorting of cargo proteins with tyrosine-based motifs from the trans-golgi network to the endosomal-lysosomal system. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AP4M1 (Adaptor-Related Protein Complex 4, Mu 1 Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AP4M1 include spastic paraplegia 50, autosomal recessive and spastic paraplegia 51. Among its related pathways are Lysosome. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is AP1M2.	Component of the AP-4 complex, a novel type of clathrin- or non-clathrin-associated protein coat involved in targeting proteins from the trans-Golgi network (TGN) to the endosomal-lysosomal system. Plays a role in the intracellular trafficking of APP from the trans-Golgi network (TGN) to endosomes, and thereby inhibits amyloidogenic processing of APP.	same
APBB1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Fe65 protein family. It is an adaptor protein localized in the nucleus. It interacts with the Alzheimer's disease amyloid precursor protein (APP), transcription factor CP2/LSF/LBP1 and the low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein. APP functions as a cytosolic anchoring site that can prevent the gene product's nuclear translocation. This encoded protein could play an important role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. It is thought to regulate transcription. Also it is observed to block cell cycle progression by downregulating thymidylate synthase expression. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]	APBB1 (Amyloid Beta (A4) Precursor Protein-Binding, Family B, Member 1 (Fe65)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APBB1 include alzheimer disease. Among its related pathways are Tyrosine Kinases / Adaptors and Neuroscience. GO annotations related to this gene include chromatin binding and histone binding. An important paralog of this gene is APBB2.	Transcription coregulator that can have both coactivator and corepressor functions. Adapter protein that forms a transcriptionally active complex with the gamma-secretase-derived amyloid precursor protein (APP) intracellular domain. Plays a central role in the response to DNA damage by translocating to the nucleus and inducing apoptosis. May act by specifically recognizing and binding histone H2AX phosphorylated on Tyr-142 (H2AXY142ph) at double-strand breaks (DSBs), recruiting other pro-apoptosis factors such as MAPK8/JNK1. Required for histone H4 acetylation at double-strand breaks (DSBs). Its ability to specifically bind modified histones and chromatin modifying enzymes such as KAT5/TIP60, probably explains its trancription activation activity. Function in association with TSHZ3, SET and HDAC factors as a transcriptional repressor, that inhibits the expression of CASP4. Associates with chromatin in a region surrounding the CASP4 transcriptional start site(s).	same
APBB3	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the APBB protein family. It is found in the cytoplasm and binds to the intracellular domain of the Alzheimer's disease beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) as well as to other APP-like proteins. It is thought that the protein encoded by this gene may modulate the internalization of APP. Multiple transcript variants encoding several different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	APBB3 (Amyloid Beta (A4) Precursor Protein-Binding, Family B, Member 3) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is APBB2.	May modulate the internalization of beta-amyloid precursor protein	same
APCDD1	This locus encodes an inhibitor of the Wnt signaling pathway. Mutations at this locus have been associated with hereditary hypotrichosis simplex. Increased expression of this gene may also be associated with colorectal carcinogenesis.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]	APCDD1 (Adenomatosis Polyposis Coli Down-Regulated 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APCDD1 include hypotrichosis 1 and hypotrichosis simplex. GO annotations related to this gene include Wnt-protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is APCDD1L.	Negative regulator of the Wnt signaling pathway. Inhibits Wnt signaling in a cell-autonomous manner and functions upstream of beta-catenin. May act via its interaction with Wnt and LRP proteins. May play a role in colorectal tumorigenesis.	same
APBB1IP	empty	APBB1IP (Amyloid Beta (A4) Precursor Protein-Binding, Family B, Member 1 Interacting Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Ras signaling pathway and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is GRB14.	Appears to function in the signal transduction from Ras activation to actin cytoskeletal remodeling. Suppresses insulin-induced promoter activities through AP1 and SRE. Mediates Rap1-induced adhesion.	same
APC	This gene encodes a tumor suppressor protein that acts as an antagonist of the Wnt signaling pathway. It is also involved in other processes including cell migration and adhesion, transcriptional activation, and apoptosis. Defects in this gene cause familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP), an autosomal dominant pre-malignant disease that usually progresses to malignancy. Disease-associated mutations tend to be clustered in a small region designated the mutation cluster region (MCR) and result in a truncated protein product. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	APC (Adenomatous Polyposis Coli) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APC include adenomatous polyposis coli and desmoid disease, hereditary. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Regulation of actin cytoskeleton. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and beta-catenin binding. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000258864.	Tumor suppressor. Promotes rapid degradation of CTNNB1 and participates in Wnt signaling as a negative regulator. APC activity is correlated with its phosphorylation state. Activates the GEF activity of SPATA13 and ARHGEF4. Plays a role in hepatocyte growth factor (HGF)-induced cell migration. Required for MMP9 up-regulation via the JNK signaling pathway in colorectal tumor cells. Acts as a mediator of ERBB2-dependent stabilization of microtubules at the cell cortex. It is required for the localization of MACF1 to the cell membrane and this localization of MACF1 is critical for its function in microtubule stabilization.	same
APCDD1L	empty	APCDD1L (Adenomatosis Polyposis Coli Down-Regulated 1-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is APCDD1.	empty	same
AP4B1	This gene encodes a subunit of a heterotetrameric adapter-like complex 4 that is involved in targeting proteins from the trans-Golgi network to the endosomal-lysosomal system. Mutations in this gene are associated with cerebral palsy spastic quadriplegic type 5 (CPSQ5) disorder. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	AP4B1 (Adaptor-Related Protein Complex 4, Beta 1 Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AP4B1 include spastic paraplegia 47, autosomal recessive and spastic paraplegia 51. Among its related pathways are Lysosome and Clathrin derived vesicle budding. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity and protein transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is AP1B1.	Subunit of novel type of clathrin- or non-clathrin-associated protein coat involved in targeting proteins from the trans-Golgi network (TGN) to the endosomal-lysosomal system	same
APC2	empty	APC2 (Adenomatosis Polyposis Coli 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APC2 include adenomatous polyposis coli. Among its related pathways are Regulation of actin cytoskeleton and Pathways in cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include microtubule binding and beta-catenin binding. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000258864.	Promotes rapid degradation of CTNNB1 and may function as a tumor suppressor. May function in Wnt signaling.	same
APEH	This gene encodes the enzyme acylpeptide hydrolase, which catalyzes the hydrolysis of the terminal acetylated amino acid preferentially from small acetylated peptides. The acetyl amino acid formed by this hydrolase is further processed to acetate and a free amino acid by an aminoacylase. This gene is located within the same region of chromosome 3 (3p21) as the aminoacylase gene, and deletions at this locus are also associated with a decrease in aminoacylase activity. The acylpeptide hydrolase is a homotetrameric protein of 300 kDa with each subunit consisting of 732 amino acid residues. It can play an important role in destroying oxidatively damaged proteins in living cells. Deletions of this gene locus are found in various types of carcinomas, including small cell lung carcinoma and renal cell carcinoma. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	APEH (Acylaminoacyl-Peptide Hydrolase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APEH include barbiturate dependence and high pressure neurological syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include serine-type endopeptidase activity.	This enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of the N-terminal peptide bond of an N-acetylated peptide to generate an N-acetylated amino acid and a peptide with a free N-terminus. It preferentially cleaves off Ac-Ala, Ac-Met and Ac-Ser.	same
APBA3	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the X11 protein family. It is an adapter protein that interacts with the Alzheimer's disease amyloid precursor protein. This gene product is believed to be involved in signal transduction processes. This gene is a candidate gene for Alzheimer's disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	APBA3 (Amyloid Beta (A4) Precursor Protein-Binding, Family A, Member 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APBA3 include melanotic neuroectodermal tumor. GO annotations related to this gene include enzyme binding and beta-amyloid binding. An important paralog of this gene is APBA2.	May modulate processing of the beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) and hence formation of beta-APP. May enhance the activity of HIF1A in macrophages by inhibiting the activity of HIF1AN.	same
APH1A	This gene encodes a component of the gamma secretase complex that cleaves integral membrane proteins such as Notch receptors and beta-amyloid precursor protein. The gamma secretase complex contains this gene product, or the paralogous anterior pharynx defective 1 homolog B (APH1B), along with the presenilin, nicastrin, and presenilin enhancer-2 proteins. The precise function of this seven-transmembrane-domain protein is unknown though it is suspected of facilitating the association of nicastrin and presenilin in the gamma secretase complex as well as interacting with substrates of the gamma secretase complex prior to their proteolytic processing. Polymorphisms in a promoter region of this gene have been associated with an increased risk for developing sporadic Alzheimer's disease. Alternative splicing results in multiple protein-coding and non-protein-coding transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	APH1A (APH1A Gamma Secretase Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are PI-3K cascade and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is APH1B.	Essential subunit of the gamma-secretase complex, an endoprotease complex that catalyzes the intramembrane cleavage of integral proteins such as Notch receptors and APP (beta-amyloid precursor protein). It probably represents a stabilizing cofactor for the presenilin homodimer that promotes the formation of a stable complex.	same
APH1B	This gene encodes a multi-pass transmembrane protein that is a functional component of the gamma-secretase complex, which also contains presenilin and nicastrin. This protein represents a stabilizing cofactor for the presenilin holoprotein in the complex. The gamma-secretase complex catalyzes the cleavage of integral proteins such as notch receptors and beta-amyloid precursor protein. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]	APH1B (APH1B Gamma Secretase Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are PI-3K cascade and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include peptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is APH1A.	Probable subunit of the gamma-secretase complex, an endoprotease complex that catalyzes the intramembrane cleavage of integral proteins such as Notch receptors and APP (beta-amyloid precursor protein). It probably represents a stabilizing cofactor for the presenilin homodimer that promotes the formation of a stable complex. Probably present in a minority of gamma-secretase complexes compared to APH1A.	same
APBB2	The protein encoded by this gene interacts with the cytoplasmic domains of amyloid beta (A4) precursor protein and amyloid beta (A4) precursor-like protein 2. This protein contains two phosphotyrosine binding (PTB) domains, which are thought to function in signal transduction. Polymorphisms in this gene have been associated with Alzheimer's disease. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]	APBB2 (Amyloid Beta (A4) Precursor Protein-Binding, Family B, Member 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APBB2 include alzheimer disease. GO annotations related to this gene include transcription factor binding and beta-amyloid binding. An important paralog of this gene is APBB3.	May modulate the internalization of beta-amyloid precursor protein	same
AP4E1	This gene encodes a member of the adaptor complexes large subunit protein family. These proteins are components of the heterotetrameric adaptor protein complexes, which play important roles in the secretory and endocytic pathways by mediating vesicle formation and sorting of integral membrane proteins. The encoded protein is a large subunit of adaptor protein complex-4, which is associated with both clathrin- and nonclathrin-coated vesicles. Disruption of this gene may be associated with cerebral palsy. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]	AP4E1 (Adaptor-Related Protein Complex 4, Epsilon 1 Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AP4E1 include spastic paraplegia 51, autosomal recessive and spastic paraplegia 51. Among its related pathways are Lysosome and Clathrin derived vesicle budding. An important paralog of this gene is AP1G2.	Subunit of novel type of clathrin- or non-clathrin-associated protein coat involved in targeting proteins from the trans-Golgi network (TGN) to the endosomal-lysosomal system	same
APIP	APIP is an APAF1 (MIM 602233)-interacting protein that acts as a negative regulator of ischemic/hypoxic injury (Cho et al., 2004 [PubMed 15262985]).[supplied by OMIM, Dec 2008]	APIP (APAF1 Interacting Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and methylthioribulose 1-phosphate dehydratase activity.	Catalyzes the dehydration of methylthioribulose-1-phosphate (MTRu-1-P) into 2,3-diketo-5-methylthiopentyl-1-phosphate (DK-MTP-1-P). Functions in the methionine salvage pathway, which plays a key role in cancer, apoptosis, microbial proliferation and inflammation. May inhibit the CASP1-related inflammatory response (pyroptosis), the CASP9-dependent apoptotic pathway and the cytochrome c-dependent and APAF1-mediated cell death.	same
APCS	The protein encoded by this gene is a glycoprotein, belonging to the pentraxin family of proteins, which has a characteristic pentameric organization. These family members have considerable sequence homology which is thought to be the result of gene duplication. The binding of the encoded protein to proteins in the pathological amyloid cross-beta fold suggests its possible role as a chaperone. This protein is also thought to control the degradation of chromatin. It has been demonstrated that this protein binds to apoptotic cells at an early stage, which raises the possibility that it is involved in dealing with apoptotic cells in vivo. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008]	APCS (Amyloid P Component, Serum) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APCS include candida glabrata and burns. Among its related pathways are Disease and RNA Polymerase I Promoter Opening. GO annotations related to this gene include unfolded protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is PTX3.	Can interact with DNA and histones and may scavenge nuclear material released from damaged circulating cells. May also function as a calcium-dependent lectin	same
APLP2	This gene encodes amyloid precursor- like protein 2 (APLP2), which is a member of the APP (amyloid precursor protein) family including APP, APLP1 and APLP2. This protein is ubiquitously expressed. It contains heparin-, copper- and zinc- binding domains at the N-terminus, BPTI/Kunitz inhibitor and E2 domains in the middle region, and transmembrane and intracellular domains at the C-terminus. This protein interacts with major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I molecules. The synergy of this protein and the APP is required to mediate neuromuscular transmission, spatial learning and synaptic plasticity. This protein has been implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	APLP2 (Amyloid Beta (A4) Precursor-Like Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are EGFR1 Signaling Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and serine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is APLP1.	May play a role in the regulation of hemostasis. The soluble form may have inhibitory properties towards coagulation factors. May interact with cellular G-protein signaling pathways. May bind to the DNA 5-GTCACATG-3(CDEI box). Inhibits trypsin, chymotrypsin, plasmin, factor XIA and plasma and glandular kallikrein. Modulates the Cu/Zn nitric oxide-catalyzed autodegradation of GPC1 heparan sulfate side chains in fibroblasts (By similarity).	same
APEX2	Apurinic/apyrimidinic (AP) sites occur frequently in DNA molecules by spontaneous hydrolysis, by DNA damaging agents or by DNA glycosylases that remove specific abnormal bases. AP sites are pre-mutagenic lesions that can prevent normal DNA replication so the cell contains systems to identify and repair such sites. Class II AP endonucleases cleave the phosphodiester backbone 5' to the AP site. This gene encodes a protein shown to have a weak class II AP endonuclease activity. Most of the encoded protein is located in the nucleus but some is also present in mitochondria. This protein may play an important role in both nuclear and mitochondrial base excision repair. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2012]	APEX2 (APEX Nuclease (Apurinic/Apyrimidinic Endonuclease) 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APEX2 include mitochondrial disorders. Among its related pathways are Resolution of Abasic Sites (AP sites). GO annotations related to this gene include endonuclease activity and DNA-(apurinic or apyrimidinic site) lyase activity. An important paralog of this gene is APEX1.	Function as a weak apurinic/apyrimidinic (AP) endodeoxyribonuclease in the DNA base excision repair (BER) pathway of DNA lesions induced by oxidative and alkylating agents. Initiates repair of AP sites in DNA by catalyzing hydrolytic incision of the phosphodiester backbone immediately adjacent to the damage, generating a single-strand break with 5-deoxyribose phosphate and 3-hydroxyl ends. Displays also double-stranded DNA 3-5 exonuclease, 3-phosphodiesterase activities. Shows robust 3-5 exonuclease activity on 3-recessed heteroduplex DNA and is able to remove mismatched nucleotides preferentially. Shows fairly strong 3-phosphodiesterase activity involved in the removal of 3-damaged termini formed in DNA by oxidative agents. In the nucleus functions in the PCNA-dependent BER pathway. Required for somatic hypermutation (SHM) and DNA cleavage step of class switch recombination (CSR) of immunoglobulin genes. Required for proper cell cycle progression during proliferation of peripheral lymphocytes.	same
APLP1	This gene encodes a member of the highly conserved amyloid precursor protein gene family. The encoded protein is a membrane-associated glycoprotein that is cleaved by secretases in a manner similar to amyloid beta A4 precursor protein cleavage. This cleavage liberates an intracellular cytoplasmic fragment that may act as a transcriptional activator. The encoded protein may also play a role in synaptic maturation during cortical development. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	APLP1 (Amyloid Beta (A4) Precursor-Like Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APLP1 include alzheimer disease. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and transition metal ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is APP.	May play a role in postsynaptic function. The C-terminal gamma-secretase processed fragment, ALID1, activates transcription activation through APBB1 (Fe65) binding (By similarity). Couples to JIP signal transduction through C-terminal binding. May interact with cellular G-protein signaling pathways. Can regulate neurite outgrowth through binding to components of the extracellular matrix such as heparin and collagen I.	same
API5	This gene encodes an apoptosis inhibitory protein whose expression prevents apoptosis after growth factor deprivation. This protein suppresses the transcription factor E2F1-induced apoptosis and also interacts with, and negatively regulates Acinus, a nuclear factor involved in apoptotic DNA fragmentation. Its depletion enhances the cytotoxic action of the chemotherapeutic drugs. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	API5 (Apoptosis Inhibitor 5) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include fibroblast growth factor binding.	Antiapoptotic factor that may have a role in protein assembly. Negatively regulates ACIN1. By binding to ACIN1, it suppresses ACIN1 cleavage from CASP3 and ACIN1-mediated DNA fragmentation. Also known to efficiently suppress E2F1-induced apoptosis. Its depletion enhances the cytotoxic action of the chemotherapeutic drugs.	same
APOA1	This gene encodes apolipoprotein A-I, which is the major protein component of high density lipoprotein (HDL) in plasma. The protein promotes cholesterol efflux from tissues to the liver for excretion, and it is a cofactor for lecithin cholesterolacyltransferase (LCAT) which is responsible for the formation of most plasma cholesteryl esters. This gene is closely linked with two other apolipoprotein genes on chromosome 11. Defects in this gene are associated with HDL deficiencies, including Tangier disease, and with systemic non-neuropathic amyloidosis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	APOA1 (Apolipoprotein A-I) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APOA1 include hypoalphalipoproteinemia and apoa1-related familial visceral amyloidosis. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and enzyme binding. An important paralog of this gene is APOA4.	Participates in the reverse transport of cholesterol from tissues to the liver for excretion by promoting cholesterol efflux from tissues and by acting as a cofactor for the lecithin cholesterol acyltransferase (LCAT). As part of the SPAP complex, activates spermatozoa motility.	same
APOA4	Apoliprotein (apo) A-IV gene contains 3 exons separated by two introns. A sequence polymorphism has been identified in the 3'UTR of the third exon. The primary translation product is a 396-residue preprotein which after proteolytic processing is secreted its primary site of synthesis, the intestine, in association with chylomicron particles. Although its precise function is not known, apo A-IV is a potent activator of lecithin-cholesterol acyltransferase in vitro. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	APOA4 (Apolipoprotein A-IV) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APOA4 include chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy and demyelinating polyneuropathy. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and copper ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is APOA1.	May have a role in chylomicrons and VLDL secretion and catabolism. Required for efficient activation of lipoprotein lipase by ApoC-II; potent activator of LCAT. Apoa-IV is a major component of HDL and chylomicrons	same
APOA2	This gene encodes apolipoprotein (apo-) A-II, which is the second most abundant protein of the high density lipoprotein particles. The protein is found in plasma as a monomer, homodimer, or heterodimer with apolipoprotein D. Defects in this gene may result in apolipoprotein A-II deficiency or hypercholesterolemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	APOA2 (Apolipoprotein A-II) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APOA2 include apolipoprotein a-ii deficiency and familial renal amyloidosis due to apolipoprotein aii variant. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and phospholipid binding.	May stabilize HDL (high density lipoprotein) structure by its association with lipids, and affect the HDL metabolism	same
APLN	This gene encodes a peptide that functions as an endogenous ligand for the G protein coupled receptor APJ. The encoded protein is synthesized as a prepropeptide that is processed into biologically active C-terminal fragments. The peptide fragments activate different tissue specific signaling pathways that regulate diverse biological functions including fluid homeostasis, cardiovascular function and insulin secretion. This protein also functions as a coreceptor for the human immunodeficiency virus 1.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]	APLN (Apelin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APLN include syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone and obesity. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and apelin receptor binding.	Endogenous ligand for APJ, an alternative coreceptor with CD4 for HIV-1 infection. Inhibits HIV-1 entry in cells coexpressing CD4 and APJ. Apelin-36 has a greater inhibitory activity on HIV infection than other synthetic apelin derivatives. The oral intake in the colostrum and the milk could have a role in the modulation of the immune responses in neonates. May also have a role in the central control of body fluid homeostasis by influencing AVP release and drinking behavior.	same
APOA1BP	The product of this gene interacts with apolipoprotein A-I (apoA-I), the major apolipoprotein of high-density lipoproteins (HDLs). It is secreted into some bodily fluids, and its synthesis and secretion are stimulated in vitro by incubating cells with apoA-I. The human genome contains related pseudogenes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	APOA1BP (Apolipoprotein A-I Binding Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are NADH repair. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and isomerase activity. An important paralog of this gene is YJEFN3.	Catalyzes the epimerization of the S- and R-forms of NAD(P)HX, a damaged form of NAD(P)H that is a result of enzymatic or heat-dependent hydration. This is a prerequisite for the S-specific NAD(P)H-hydrate dehydratase to allow the repair of both epimers of NAD(P)HX.	same
APOBEC1	This gene encodes a member of the cytidine deaminase enzyme family. The encoded protein forms a multiple-protein editing holoenzyme with APOBEC1 complementation factor (ACF) and APOBEC1 stimulating protein (ASP). This holoenzyme is involved in the editing of C-to-U nucleotide bases in apolipoprotein B and neurofibromatosis-1 mRNAs. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2015]	APOBEC1 (Apolipoprotein B MRNA Editing Enzyme, Catalytic Polypeptide 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APOBEC1 include neurofibromatosis. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and Formation of editosomes by ADAR proteins. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and cytidine deaminase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AICDA.	Catalytic component of the apolipoprotein B mRNA editing enzyme complex which is responsible for the postranscriptional editing of a CAA codon for Gln to a UAA codon for stop in the APOB mRNA. Also involved in CGA (Arg) to UGA (Stop) editing in the NF1 mRNA. May also play a role in the epigenetic regulation of gene expression by participating in DNA demethylation.	same
APOBEC3C	This gene is a member of the cytidine deaminase gene family. It is one of seven related genes or pseudogenes found in a cluster thought to result from gene duplication, on chromosome 22. Members of the cluster encode proteins that are structurally and functionally related to the C to U RNA-editing cytidine deaminase APOBEC1. It is thought that the proteins may be RNA editing enzymes and have roles in growth or cell cycle control. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	APOBEC3C (Apolipoprotein B MRNA Editing Enzyme, Catalytic Polypeptide-Like 3C) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APOBEC3C include hiv-1. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrolase activity, acting on carbon-nitrogen (but not peptide) bonds, in cyclic amidines. An important paralog of this gene is AICDA.	DNA deaminase (cytidine deaminase) which acts as an inhibitor of retrovirus replication and retrotransposon mobility via deaminase-dependent and -independent mechanisms. After the penetration of retroviral nucleocapsids into target cells of infection and the initiation of reverse transcription, it can induce the conversion of cytosine to uracil in the minus-sense single-strand viral DNA, leading to G-to-A hypermutations in the subsequent plus-strand viral DNA. The resultant detrimental levels of mutations in the proviral genome, along with a deamination-independent mechanism that works prior to the proviral integration, together exert efficient antiretroviral effects in infected target cells. Selectively targets single-stranded DNA and does not deaminate double-stranded DNA or single-or double-stranded RNA. Exhibits antiviral activity against simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV), hepatitis B virus (HBV), herpes simplex virus 1 (HHV-1) and Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and may inhibit the mobility of LTR and non-LTR retrotransposons. May also play a role in the epigenetic regulation of gene expression through the process of active DNA demethylation.	same
APOBEC3A	This gene is a member of the cytidine deaminase gene family. It is one of seven related genes or pseudogenes found in a cluster, thought to result from gene duplication, on chromosome 22. Members of the cluster encode proteins that are structurally and functionally related to the C to U RNA-editing cytidine deaminase APOBEC1. The protein encoded by this gene lacks the zinc binding activity of other family members. The protein plays a role in immunity, by restricting transmission of foreign DNA such as viruses. One mechanism of foreign DNA restriction is deamination of foreign double-stranded DNA cytidines to uridines, which leads to DNA degradation. However, other mechanisms are also thought to be involved, as anti-viral effect is not dependent on deaminase activity. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]	APOBEC3A (Apolipoprotein B MRNA Editing Enzyme, Catalytic Polypeptide-Like 3A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APOBEC3A include human t-cell leukemia virus type 1 and colorectal adenocarcinoma. GO annotations related to this gene include cytidine deaminase activity and deoxycytidine deaminase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AICDA.	DNA deaminase (cytidine deaminase) with restriction activity against viruses, foreign DNA and mobility of retrotransposons. Exhibits antiviral activity against adeno-associated virus (AAV) and human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1) and may inhibit the mobility of LTR and non-LTR retrotransposons. Selectively targets single-stranded DNA and can deaminate both methylcytosine and cytosine in foreign DNA. Can induce somatic hypermutation in the nuclear and mitochondrial DNA. May also play a role in the epigenetic regulation of gene expression through the process of active DNA demethylation.	same
APOA5	The protein encoded by this gene is an apolipoprotein that plays an important role in regulating the plasma triglyceride levels, a major risk factor for coronary artery disease. It is a component of high density lipoprotein and is highly similar to a rat protein that is upregulated in response to liver injury. Mutations in this gene have been associated with hypertriglyceridemia and hyperlipoproteinemia type 5. This gene is located proximal to the apolipoprotein gene cluster on chromosome 11q23. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]	APOA5 (Apolipoprotein A-V) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APOA5 include hypertriglyceridemia and hyperchylomicronemia, late-onset. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and heparin binding.	Minor apolipoprotein mainly associated with HDL and to a lesser extent with VLDL. May also be associated with chylomicrons. Important determinant of plasma triglyceride (TG) levels by both being a potent stimulator of apo-CII lipoprotein lipase (LPL) TG hydrolysis and a inhibitor of the hepatic VLDL-TG production rate (without affecting the VLDL-apoB production rate) (By similarity). Activates poorly lecithin:cholesterol acyltransferase (LCAT) and does not enhance efflux of cholesterol from macrophages.	same
APITD1	This gene was identified in the neuroblastoma tumor suppressor candidate region on chromosome 1p36. It contains a TFIID-31 domain, similar to that found in TATA box-binding protein-associated factor, TAF(II)31, which is required for p53-mediated transcription activation. This gene was expressed at very low levels in neuroblastoma tumors, and was shown to reduce cell growth in neuroblastoma cells, suggesting that it may have a role in a cell death pathway. The protein is a component of multiple complexes, including the Fanconi anemia (FA) core complex, the APITD1/CENPS complex, and the CENPA-CAD (nucleosome distal) complex. Known functions include an involvement with chromatin associations of the FA core complex, and a role in the stable assembly of the outer kinetochore. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. Naturally occurring read-through transcripts also exist between this gene and the downstream cortistatin (CORT) gene, as represented in GeneID:100526739. An APITD1-related pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 7. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]	APITD1 (Apoptosis-Inducing, TAF9-Like Domain 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APITD1 include gastric antral vascular ectasia and neuroblastoma. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include protein heterodimerization activity and double-stranded DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is APITD1-CORT.	DNA-binding component of the FA core complex involved in DNA damage repair and genome maintenance. Required for optimal chromatin association of the FA core complex. Required for efficient damage-induced monoubiquitination and focus formation of FANCD2. Stabilizes FAAD24, FANCM and STRA13/CENPX in the FA core complex. Plays a role in DNA interstrand cross-linking (ICL) repair and in recovery of replication forks stalled by topoisomerase I-DNA cleavage intermediates induced by camptothecin. Component of the heterotetrameric CENP-T-W-S-X complex that binds and supercoils DNA, and plays an important role in kinetochore assembly. Component of the APITD1/CENPS complex that is essential for the stable assembly of the outer kinetochore. Plays an important role in mitotic progression and chromosome segregation. Component of the CENPA-CAD (nucleosome distal) complex, a complex recruited to centromeres which is involved in assembly of kinetochore proteins, mitotic progression and chromosome segregation.	same
APOBEC3G	This gene is a member of the cytidine deaminase gene family. It is one of seven related genes or pseudogenes found in a cluster, thought to result from gene duplication, on chromosome 22. Members of the cluster encode proteins that are structurally and functionally related to the C to U RNA-editing cytidine deaminase APOBEC1. It is thought that the proteins may be RNA editing enzymes and have roles in growth or cell cycle control. The protein encoded by this gene has been found to be a specific inhibitor of human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) infectivity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	APOBEC3G (Apolipoprotein B MRNA Editing Enzyme, Catalytic Polypeptide-Like 3G) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APOBEC3G include human immunodeficiency virus infectious disease and hiv-1. Among its related pathways are Disease and Integrated Breast Cancer Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and cytidine deaminase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AICDA.	DNA deaminase (cytidine deaminase) which acts as an inhibitor of retrovirus replication and retrotransposon mobility via deaminase-dependent and -independent mechanisms. Exhibits potent antiviral activity against vif-deficient HIV-1. After the penetration of retroviral nucleocapsids into target cells of infection and the initiation of reverse transcription, it can induce the conversion of cytosine to uracil in the minus-sense single-strand viral DNA, leading to G-to-A hypermutations in the subsequent plus-strand viral DNA. The resultant detrimental levels of mutations in the proviral genome, along with a deamination-independent mechanism that works prior to the proviral integration, together exert efficient antiretroviral effects in infected target cells. Selectively targets single-stranded DNA and does not deaminate double-stranded DNA or single-or double-stranded RNA. Exhibits antiviral activity also against simian immunodeficiency viruses (SIVs), hepatitis B virus (HBV), equine infectious anemia virus (EIAV), xenotropic MuLV-related virus (XMRV) and simian foamy virus (SFV). May inhibit the mobility of LTR and non-LTR retrotransposons.	same
APLF	C2ORF13 is a component of the cellular response to chromosomal DNA single- and double-strand breaks (Iles et al., 2007 [PubMed 17353262]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	APLF (Aprataxin And PNKP Like Factor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APLF include degenerative disc disease and junctional epidermolysis bullosa. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleotide binding and DNA-(apurinic or apyrimidinic site) lyase activity.	Nuclease involved in single-strand and double-strand DNA break repair. Recruited to sites of DNA damage through interaction with poly(ADP-ribose), a polymeric post-translational modification synthesized transiently at sites of chromosomal damage to accelerate DNA strand break repair reactions. Displays apurinic-apyrimidinic (AP) endonuclease and 3-5 exonuclease activities in vitro. Also able to introduce nicks at hydroxyuracil and other types of pyrimidine base damage.	same
APOBEC3B	This gene is a member of the cytidine deaminase gene family. It is one of seven related genes or pseudogenes found in a cluster, thought to result from gene duplication, on chromosome 22. Members of the cluster encode proteins that are structurally and functionally related to the C to U RNA-editing cytidine deaminase APOBEC1. It is thought that the proteins may be RNA editing enzymes and have roles in growth or cell cycle control. A hybrid gene results from the deletion of approximately 29.5 kb of sequence between this gene, APOBEC3B, and the adjacent gene APOBEC3A. The breakpoints of the deletion are within the two genes, so the deletion allele is predicted to have the promoter and coding region of APOBEC3A, but the 3' UTR of APOBEC3B. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]	APOBEC3B (Apolipoprotein B MRNA Editing Enzyme, Catalytic Polypeptide-Like 3B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APOBEC3B include human t-cell leukemia virus type 1 and hiv-1. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and deoxycytidine deaminase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AICDA.	DNA deaminase (cytidine deaminase) which acts as an inhibitor of retrovirus replication and retrotransposon mobility via deaminase-dependent and -independent mechanisms. After the penetration of retroviral nucleocapsids into target cells of infection and the initiation of reverse transcription, it can induce the conversion of cytosine to uracil in the minus-sense single-strand viral DNA, leading to G-to-A hypermutations in the subsequent plus-strand viral DNA. The resultant detrimental levels of mutations in the proviral genome, along with a deamination-independent mechanism that works prior to the proviral integration, together exert efficient antiretroviral effects in infected target cells. Selectively targets single-stranded DNA and does not deaminate double-stranded DNA or single-or double-stranded RNA. Exhibits antiviral activity against simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV), hepatitis B virus (HBV) and human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1) and may inhibit the mobility of LTR and non-LTR retrotransposons.	same
APOBEC3H	This gene encodes a member of the apolipoprotein B mRNA-editing enzyme catalytic polypeptide 3 family of proteins. The encoded protein is a cytidine deaminase that has antiretroviral activity by generating lethal hypermutations in viral genomes. Polymorphisms and alternative splicing in this gene influence its antiretroviral activity and are associated with increased resistence to human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infection in certain populations. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]	APOBEC3H (Apolipoprotein B MRNA Editing Enzyme, Catalytic Polypeptide-Like 3H) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APOBEC3H include hiv-1. GO annotations related to this gene include cytidine deaminase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AICDA.	DNA deaminase (cytidine deaminase) which acts as an inhibitor of retrovirus replication and retrotransposon mobility via deaminase-dependent and -independent mechanisms. The A3H-var/haplotype 2 exhibits antiviral activity against vif-deficient HIV-1. After the penetration of retroviral nucleocapsids into target cells of infection and the initiation of reverse transcription, it can induce the conversion of cytosine to uracil in the minus-sense single-strand viral DNA, leading to G-to-A hypermutations in the subsequent plus-strand viral DNA. The resultant detrimental levels of mutations in the proviral genome, along with a deamination-independent mechanism that works prior to the proviral integration, together exert efficient antiretroviral effects in infected target cells. Selectively targets single-stranded DNA and does not deaminate double-stranded DNA or single- or double-stranded RNA. Exhibits antiviral activity also against T-cell leukemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1) and may inhibit the mobility of LTR and non-LTR retrotransposons.	same
APOBEC3F	This gene is a member of the cytidine deaminase gene family. It is one of seven related genes or pseudogenes found in a cluster, thought to result from gene duplication, on chromosome 22. Members of the cluster encode proteins that are structurally and functionally related to the C to U RNA-editing cytidine deaminase APOBEC1. It is thought that the proteins may be RNA editing enzymes and have roles in growth or cell cycle control. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	APOBEC3F (Apolipoprotein B MRNA Editing Enzyme, Catalytic Polypeptide-Like 3F) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APOBEC3F include hiv-1. Among its related pathways are Disease and HIV Life Cycle. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and cytidine deaminase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AICDA.	DNA deaminase (cytidine deaminase) which acts as an inhibitor of retrovirus replication and retrotransposon mobility via deaminase-dependent and -independent mechanisms. Exhibits antiviral activity against vif-deficient HIV-1. After the penetration of retroviral nucleocapsids into target cells of infection and the initiation of reverse transcription, it can induce the conversion of cytosine to uracil in the minus-sense single-strand viral DNA, leading to G-to-A hypermutations in the subsequent plus-strand viral DNA. The resultant detrimental levels of mutations in the proviral genome, along with a deamination-independent mechanism that works prior to the proviral integration, together exert efficient antiretroviral effects in infected target cells. Selectively targets single-stranded DNA and does not deaminate double-stranded DNA or single- or double-stranded RNA. Exhibits antiviral activity also against hepatitis B virus (HBV), equine infectious anemia virus (EIAV), xenotropic MuLV-related virus (XMRV) and simian foamy virus (SFV) and may inhibit the mobility of LTR and non-LTR retrotransposons. May also play a role in the epigenetic regulation of gene expression through the process of active DNA demethylation.	same
APEX1	Apurinic/apyrimidinic (AP) sites occur frequently in DNA molecules by spontaneous hydrolysis, by DNA damaging agents or by DNA glycosylases that remove specific abnormal bases. AP sites are pre-mutagenic lesions that can prevent normal DNA replication so the cell contains systems to identify and repair such sites. Class II AP endonucleases cleave the phosphodiester backbone 5' to the AP site. This gene encodes the major AP endonuclease in human cells. Splice variants have been found for this gene; all encode the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	APEX1 (APEX Nuclease (Multifunctional DNA Repair Enzyme) 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APEX1 include attenuated familial adenomatous polyposis and respiratory failure. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle / Checkpoint Control and Spinal Cord Injury. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and transcription corepressor activity. An important paralog of this gene is APEX2.	Multifunctional protein that plays a central role in the cellular response to oxidative stress. The two major activities of APEX1 in DNA repair and redox regulation of transcriptional factors. Functions as a apurinic/apyrimidinic (AP) endodeoxyribonuclease in the DNA base excision repair (BER) pathway of DNA lesions induced by oxidative and alkylating agents. Initiates repair of AP sites in DNA by catalyzing hydrolytic incision of the phosphodiester backbone immediately adjacent to the damage, generating a single-strand break with 5-deoxyribose phosphate and 3-hydroxyl ends. Does also incise at AP sites in the DNA strand of DNA/RNA hybrids, single-stranded DNA regions of R-loop structures, and single-stranded RNA molecules. Has a 3-5 exoribonuclease activity on mismatched deoxyribonucleotides at the 3 termini of nicked or gapped DNA molecules during short-patch BER. Possesses a DNA 3 phosphodiesterase activity capable of removing lesions (such as phosphoglycolate) blocking the 3 side of DNA strand breaks. May also play a role in the epigenetic regulation of gene expression by participating in DNA demethylation. Acts as a loading factor for POLB onto non-incised AP sites in DNA and stimulates the 5-terminal deoxyribose 5-phosphate (dRp) excision activity of POLB. Plays a role in the protection from granzymes-mediated cellular repair leading to cell death. Also involved in the DNA cleavage step of class switch recombination (CSR). On the other hand, APEX1 also exerts reversible nuclear redox activity to regulate DNA binding affinity and transcriptional activity of transcriptional factors by controlling the redox status of their DNA-binding domain, such as the FOS/JUN AP-1 complex after exposure to IR. Involved in calcium-dependent down-regulation of parathyroid hormone (PTH) expression by binding to negative calcium response elements (nCaREs). Together with HNRNPL or the dimer XRCC5/XRCC6, associates with nCaRE, acting as an activator of transcriptional repression. Stimulates the YBX1-mediated MDR1 promoter activity, when acetylated at Lys-6 and Lys-7, leading to drug resistance. Acts also as an endoribonuclease involved in the control of single-stranded RNA metabolism. Plays a role in regulating MYC mRNA turnover by preferentially cleaving in between UA and CA dinucleotides of the MYC coding region determinant (CRD). In association with NMD1, plays a role in the rRNA quality control process during cell cycle progression. Associates, together with YBX1, on the MDR1 promoter. Together with NPM1, associates with rRNA. Binds DNA and RNA.	same
APLNR	This gene encodes a member of the G protein-coupled receptor gene family. The encoded protein is related to the angiotensin receptor, but is actually an apelin receptor that inhibits adenylate cyclase activity and plays a counter-regulatory role against the pressure action of angiotensin II by exerting hypertensive effect. It functions in the cardiovascular and central nervous systems, in glucose metabolism, in embryonic and tumor angiogenesis and as a human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) coreceptor. Two transcript variants resulting from alternative splicing have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009]	APLNR (Apelin Receptor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APLNR include hiv-1. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include G-protein coupled receptor activity and receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACKR3.	Receptor for apelin coupled to G proteins that inhibit adenylate cyclase activity and plays a role in various processes in adults such as regulation of blood pressure, heart contractility, and heart failure. Also plays a key role in early development such as gastrulation and heart morphogenesis by acting as a receptor for APELA hormone. Alternative coreceptor with CD4 for HIV-1 infection; may be involved in the development of AIDS dementia	same
APOC1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the apolipoprotein C1 family. This gene is expressed primarily in the liver, and it is activated when monocytes differentiate into macrophages. A pseudogene of this gene is located 4 kb downstream in the same orientation, on the same chromosome. This gene is mapped to chromosome 19, where it resides within a apolipoprotein gene cluster. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene, but the biological validity of some variants has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	APOC1 (Apolipoprotein C-I) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APOC1 include aphasia and stomach cancer. Among its related pathways are Statin Pathway and Statin Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include fatty acid binding and phospholipase inhibitor activity.	Inhibitor of lipoprotein binding to the low density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor, LDL receptor-related protein, and very low density lipoprotein (VLDL) receptor. Associates with high density lipoproteins (HDL) and the triacylglycerol-rich lipoproteins in the plasma and makes up about 10% of the protein of the VLDL and 2% of that of HDL. Appears to interfere directly with fatty acid uptake and is also the major plasma inhibitor of cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP). Binds free fatty acids and reduces their intracellular esterification. Modulates the interaction of APOE with beta-migrating VLDL and inhibits binding of beta-VLDL to the LDL receptor-related protein.	same
APOC1P1	empty	APOC1P1 (Apolipoprotein C-I Pseudogene 1) is a Pseudogene. Diseases associated with APOC1P1 include intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma.	empty	same
APOBEC4	This gene encodes a member of the AID/APOBEC family of polynucleotide (deoxy)cytidine deaminases, which convert cytidine to uridine. Other AID/APOBEC family members are involved in mRNA editing, somatic hypermutation and recombination of immunoglobulin genes, and innate immunity to retroviral infection. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	APOBEC4 (Apolipoprotein B MRNA Editing Enzyme, Catalytic Polypeptide-Like 4 (Putative)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrolase activity, acting on carbon-nitrogen (but not peptide) bonds, in cyclic amidines.	Putative C to U editing enzyme whose physiological substrate is not yet known.	same
APOBEC2	empty	APOBEC2 (Apolipoprotein B MRNA Editing Enzyme, Catalytic Polypeptide-Like 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and cytidine deaminase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AICDA.	Probable C to U editing enzyme whose physiological substrate is not yet known. Does not display detectable apoB mRNA editing. Has a low intrinsic cytidine deaminase activity. May play a role in the epigenetic regulation of gene expression through the process of active DNA demethylation.	same
APOC3	Apolipoprotein C-III is a very low density lipoprotein (VLDL) protein. APOC3 inhibits lipoprotein lipase and hepatic lipase; it is thought to delay catabolism of triglyceride-rich particles. The APOA1, APOC3 and APOA4 genes are closely linked in both rat and human genomes. The A-I and A-IV genes are transcribed from the same strand, while the A-1 and C-III genes are convergently transcribed. An increase in apoC-III levels induces the development of hypertriglyceridemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	APOC3 (Apolipoprotein C-III) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APOC3 include apolipoprotein c-iii deficiency and hyperalphalipoproteinemia. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and enzyme regulator activity.	Component of triglyceride-rich very low density lipoproteins (VLDL) and high density lipoproteins (HDL) in plasma. Plays a multifaceted role in triglyceride homeostasis. Intracellularly, promotes hepatic very low density lipoprotein 1 (VLDL1) assembly and secretion; extracellularly, attenuates hydrolysis and clearance of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins (TRLs). Impairs the lipolysis of TRLs by inhibiting lipoprotein lipase and the hepatic uptake of TRLs by remnant receptors.	same
APOB48R	Apolipoprotein B48 receptor is a macrophage receptor that binds to the apolipoprotein B48 of dietary triglyceride (TG)-rich lipoproteins. This receptor may provide essential lipids, lipid-soluble vitamins and other nutrients to reticuloendothelial cells. If overwhelmed with elevated plasma triglyceride, the apolipoprotein B48 receptor may contribute to foam cell formation, endothelial dysfunction, and atherothrombogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	APOBR (Apolipoprotein B Receptor) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include very-low-density lipoprotein particle receptor activity.	Macrophage receptor that binds to the apolipoprotein B48 (APOB) of dietary triglyceride (TG)-rich lipoproteins (TRL) or to a like domain of APOB in hypertriglyceridemic very low density lipoprotein (HTG-VLDL). Binds and internalizes TRL when out of the context of the macrophage. May provide essential lipids to reticuloendothelial cells. Could also be involved in foam cell formation with elevated TRL and remnant lipoprotein (RLP). Mediates the rapid high-affinity uptake of chylomicrons (CM), HTG-VLDL, and trypsinized (tryp) VLDL devoid of APOE in vitro in macrophages.	diff
APOC2	This gene encodes a lipid-binding protein belonging to the apolipoprotein gene family. The protein is secreted in plasma where it is a component of very low density lipoprotein. This protein activates the enzyme lipoprotein lipase, which hydrolyzes triglycerides and thus provides free fatty acids for cells. Mutations in this gene cause hyperlipoproteinemia type IB, characterized by hypertriglyceridemia, xanthomas, and increased risk of pancreatitis and early atherosclerosis. This gene is present in a cluster with other related apolipoprotein genes on chromosome 19. Naturally occurring read-through transcription exists between this gene and the neighboring upstream apolipoprotein C-IV (APOC4) gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]	APOC2 (Apolipoprotein C-II) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APOC2 include hyperlipoproteinemia, type ib and familial apolipoprotein c-ii deficiency. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Regulation of actin cytoskeleton. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and phospholipase binding.	Component of chylomicrons, very low-density lipoproteins (VLDL), low-density lipoproteins (LDL), and high-density lipoproteins (HDL) in plasma. Plays an important role in lipoprotein metabolism as an activator of lipoprotein lipase. Both proapolipoprotein C-II and apolipoprotein C-II can activate lipoprotein lipase. In normolipidemic individuals, it is mainly distributed in the HDL, whereas in hypertriglyceridemic individuals, predominantly found in the VLDL and LDL.	same
APOF	The product of this gene is one of the minor apolipoproteins found in plasma. This protein forms complexes with lipoproteins and may be involved in transport and/or esterification of cholesterol. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	APOF (Apolipoprotein F) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APOF include dacryoadenitis. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and lipid transporter activity.	Minor apolipoprotein that associates with LDL. Inhibits cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) activity and appears to be an important regulator of cholesterol transport. Also associates to a lesser degree with VLDL, Apo-AI and Apo-AII.	same
APOBEC3D	This gene is a member of the cytidine deaminase gene family. It is one of a group of related genes found in a cluster, thought to result from gene duplication, on chromosome 22. Members of the cluster encode proteins that are structurally and functionally related to the C to U RNA-editing cytidine deaminase APOBEC1 and inhibit retroviruses, such as HIV, by deaminating cytosine residues in nascent retroviral cDNA. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	APOBEC3D (Apolipoprotein B MRNA Editing Enzyme, Catalytic Polypeptide-Like 3D) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APOBEC3D include hiv-1. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrolase activity, acting on carbon-nitrogen (but not peptide) bonds, in cyclic amidines. An important paralog of this gene is AICDA.	DNA deaminase (cytidine deaminase) which acts as an inhibitor of retrovirus replication and retrotransposon mobility via deaminase-dependent and -independent mechanisms. Exhibits antiviral activity against vif-deficient HIV-1. After the penetration of retroviral nucleocapsids into target cells of infection and the initiation of reverse transcription, it can induce the conversion of cytosine to uracil in the minus-sense single-strand viral DNA, leading to G-to-A hypermutations in the subsequent plus-strand viral DNA. The resultant detrimental levels of mutations in the proviral genome, along with a deamination-independent mechanism that works prior to the proviral integration, together exert efficient antiretroviral effects in infected target cells. Selectively targets single-stranded DNA and does not deaminate double-stranded DNA or single-or double-stranded RNA. May inhibit the mobility of LTR and non-LTR retrotransposons.	same
APOD	This gene encodes a component of high density lipoprotein that has no marked similarity to other apolipoprotein sequences. It has a high degree of homology to plasma retinol-binding protein and other members of the alpha 2 microglobulin protein superfamily of carrier proteins, also known as lipocalins. This glycoprotein is closely associated with the enzyme lecithin:cholesterol acyltransferase - an enzyme involved in lipoprotein metabolism. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]	APOD (Apolipoprotein D) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APOD include ganglioglioma and gynecomastia. Among its related pathways are Cholesterol and Sphingolipids transport / Recycling to plasma membrane in lung (normal and CF). GO annotations related to this gene include cholesterol binding and lipid transporter activity.	APOD occurs in the macromolecular complex with lecithin-cholesterol acyltransferase. It is probably involved in the transport and binding of bilin. Appears to be able to transport a variety of ligands in a number of different contexts	same
APOC4	This gene encodes a lipid-binding protein belonging to the apolipoprotein gene family. The protein is thought to play a role in lipid metabolism. Polymorphisms in this gene may influence circulating lipid levels and may be associated with coronary artery disease risk. This gene is present in a cluster with other related apolipoprotein genes on chromosome 19. Naturally occurring read-through transcription exists between this gene and the neighboring downstream apolipoprotein C-II (APOC2) gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]	APOC4 (Apolipoprotein C-IV) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APOC4 include artery disease and coronary artery disease. Among its related pathways are Statin Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include lipid transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is APOC4-APOC2.	May participate in lipoprotein metabolism	same
APOH	Apolipoprotein H has been implicated in a variety of physiologic pathways including lipoprotein metabolism, coagulation, and the production of antiphospholipid autoantibodies. APOH may be a required cofactor for anionic phospholipid binding by the antiphospholipid autoantibodies found in sera of many patients with lupus and primary antiphospholipid syndrome, but it does not seem to be required for the reactivity of antiphospholipid autoantibodies associated with infections. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	APOH (Apolipoprotein H (Beta-2-Glycoprotein I)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APOH include connective tissue disease and middle cerebral artery infarction. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and heparin binding. An important paralog of this gene is CSMD3.	Binds to various kinds of negatively charged substances such as heparin, phospholipids, and dextran sulfate. May prevent activation of the intrinsic blood coagulation cascade by binding to phospholipids on the surface of damaged cells	same
APOL4	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the apolipoprotein L family and may play a role in lipid exchange and transport throughout the body, as well as in reverse cholesterol transport from peripheral cells to the liver. Two transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. Only one of the isoforms appears to be a secreted protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	APOL4 (Apolipoprotein L, 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APOL4 include schizophrenia. Among its related pathways are Cholesterol and Sphingolipids transport / Recycling to plasma membrane in lung (normal and CF). GO annotations related to this gene include lipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is APOL5.	May play a role in lipid exchange and transport throughout the body. May participate in reverse cholesterol transport from peripheral cells to the liver (By similarity).	same
APOL1	This gene encodes a secreted high density lipoprotein which binds to apolipoprotein A-I. Apolipoprotein A-I is a relatively abundant plasma protein and is the major apoprotein of HDL. It is involved in the formation of most cholesteryl esters in plasma and also promotes efflux of cholesterol from cells. This apolipoprotein L family member may play a role in lipid exchange and transport throughout the body, as well as in reverse cholesterol transport from peripheral cells to the liver. Several different transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]	APOL1 (Apolipoprotein L, 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APOL1 include glomerulosclerosis, focal segmental, 4 and sporadic idiopathic steroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome with focal segmental hyalinosis. Among its related pathways are Cholesterol and Sphingolipids transport / Recycling to plasma membrane in lung (normal and CF) and Binding and Uptake of Ligands by Scavenger Receptors. GO annotations related to this gene include lipid binding and chloride channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is APOL5.	May play a role in lipid exchange and transport throughout the body. May participate in reverse cholesterol transport from peripheral cells to the liver	same
APOL6	This gene is a member of the apolipoprotein L gene family. The encoded protein is found in the cytoplasm, where it may affect the movement of lipids or allow the binding of lipids to organelles. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	APOL6 (Apolipoprotein L, 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cholesterol and Sphingolipids transport / Recycling to plasma membrane in lung (normal and CF). GO annotations related to this gene include lipid binding and lipid transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is APOL5.	May affect the movement of lipids in the cytoplasm or allow the binding of lipids to organelles	same
APOL3	This gene is a member of the apolipoprotein L gene family, and it is present in a cluster with other family members on chromosome 22. The encoded protein is found in the cytoplasm, where it may affect the movement of lipids, including cholesterol, and/or allow the binding of lipids to organelles. In addition, expression of this gene is up-regulated by tumor necrosis factor-alpha in endothelial cells lining the normal and atherosclerotic iliac artery and aorta. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2015]	APOL3 (Apolipoprotein L, 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cholesterol and Sphingolipids transport / Recycling to plasma membrane in lung (normal and CF). GO annotations related to this gene include signal transducer activity and lipid transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is APOL5.	May affect the movement of lipids in the cytoplasm or allow the binding of lipids to organelles	same
APOOL	This gene encodes a protein which contains an apolipoprotein O superfamily domain. This domain is found on proteins in circulating lipoprotein complexes. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]	APOOL (Apolipoprotein O-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is APOO.	Component of the MICOS complex, a large protein complex of the mitochondrial inner membrane that plays crucial roles in the maintenance of crista junctions, inner membrane architecture, and formation of contact sites to the outer membrane. Specifically binds to cardiolipin (in vitro) but not to the precursor lipid phosphatidylglycerol.	same
APPBP2	The protein encoded by this gene interacts with microtubules and is functionally associated with beta-amyloid precursor protein transport and/or processing. The beta-amyloid precursor protein is a cell surface protein with signal-transducing properties, and it is thought to play a role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. The encoded protein may be involved in regulating cell death. This gene has been found to be highly expressed in breast cancer. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2013]	APPBP2 (Amyloid Beta Precursor Protein (Cytoplasmic Tail) Binding Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APPBP2 include breast cancer. Among its related pathways are Regulation of Androgen receptor activity. GO annotations related to this gene include microtubule motor activity.	May play a role in intracellular protein transport. May be involved in the translocation of APP along microtubules toward the cell surface.	same
APOB	This gene product is the main apolipoprotein of chylomicrons and low density lipoproteins. It occurs in plasma as two main isoforms, apoB-48 and apoB-100: the former is synthesized exclusively in the gut and the latter in the liver. The intestinal and the hepatic forms of apoB are encoded by a single gene from a single, very long mRNA. The two isoforms share a common N-terminal sequence. The shorter apoB-48 protein is produced after RNA editing of the apoB-100 transcript at residue 2180 (CAA->UAA), resulting in the creation of a stop codon, and early translation termination. Mutations in this gene or its regulatory region cause hypobetalipoproteinemia, normotriglyceridemic hypobetalipoproteinemia, and hypercholesterolemia due to ligand-defective apoB, diseases affecting plasma cholesterol and apoB levels. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	APOB (Apolipoprotein B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APOB include hypobetalipoproteinemia and hypercholesterolemia, due to ligand-defective apo b. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include protein heterodimerization activity and enzyme binding.	Apolipoprotein B is a major protein constituent of chylomicrons (apo B-48), LDL (apo B-100) and VLDL (apo B-100). Apo B-100 functions as a recognition signal for the cellular binding and internalization of LDL particles by the apoB/E receptor	same
APOLD1	APOLD1 is an endothelial cell early response protein that may play a role in regulation of endothelial cell signaling and vascular function (Regard et al., 2004 [PubMed 15102925]).[supplied by OMIM, Dec 2008]	APOLD1 (Apolipoprotein L Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APOLD1 include anus disease and rectal neoplasm. GO annotations related to this gene include lipid binding.	May be involved in angiogenesis. May play a role in activity-dependent changes of brain vasculature. May affect blood-brain permeability.	same
APPL1	The protein encoded by this gene has been shown to be involved in the regulation of cell proliferation, and in the crosstalk between the adiponectin signalling and insulin signalling pathways. The encoded protein binds many other proteins, including RAB5A, DCC, AKT2, PIK3CA, adiponectin receptors, and proteins of the NuRD/MeCP1 complex. This protein is found associated with endosomal membranes, but can be released by EGF and translocated to the nucleus. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	APPL1 (Adaptor Protein, Phosphotyrosine Interaction, PH Domain And Leucine Zipper Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APPL1 include exophthalmos. Among its related pathways are Pathways in cancer and Cytoskeletal Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and protein kinase B binding. An important paralog of this gene is APPL2.	Required for the regulation of cell proliferation in response to extracellular signals from an early endosomal compartment. Links Rab5 to nuclear signal transduction.	same
APOM	The protein encoded by this gene is an apolipoprotein and member of the lipocalin protein family. It is found associated with high density lipoproteins and to a lesser extent with low density lipoproteins and triglyceride-rich lipoproteins. The encoded protein is secreted through the plasma membrane but remains membrane-bound, where it is involved in lipid transport. Alternate splicing results in both coding and non-coding variants of this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]	APOM (Apolipoprotein M) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APOM include critical limb ischemia and limb ischemia. Among its related pathways are Ca, cAMP and Lipid Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and lipid transporter activity.	Probably involved in lipid transport. Can bind sphingosine-1-phosphate, myristic acid, palmitic acid and stearic acid, retinol, all-trans-retinoic acid and 9-cis-retinoic acid.	same
APPL2	The protein encoded by this gene is one of two effectors of the small GTPase RAB5A/Rab5, which are involved in a signal transduction pathway. Both effectors contain an N-terminal Bin/Amphiphysin/Rvs (BAR) domain, a central pleckstrin homology (PH) domain, and a C-terminal phosphotyrosine binding (PTB) domain, and they bind the Rab5 through the BAR domain. They are associated with endosomal membranes and can be translocated to the nucleus in response to the EGF stimulus. They interact with the NuRD/MeCP1 complex (nucleosome remodeling and deacetylase /methyl-CpG-binding protein 1 complex) and are required for efficient cell proliferation. A chromosomal aberration t(12;22)(q24.1;q13.3) involving this gene and the PSAP2 gene results in 22q13.3 deletion syndrome, also known as Phelan-McDermid syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]	APPL2 (Adaptor Protein, Phosphotyrosine Interaction, PH Domain And Leucine Zipper Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APPL2 include phelan-mcdermid syndrome. Among its related pathways are EGFR1 Signaling Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is APPL1.	Required for the regulation of cell proliferation in response to extracellular signals mediated by an early endosomal compartment. Links Rab5 to nuclear signal transduction.	same
APOL2	This gene is a member of the apolipoprotein L gene family. The encoded protein is found in the cytoplasm, where it may affect the movement of lipids or allow the binding of lipids to organelles. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	APOL2 (Apolipoprotein L, 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APOL2 include schizophrenia. Among its related pathways are Cholesterol and Sphingolipids transport / Recycling to plasma membrane in lung (normal and CF). GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and high-density lipoprotein particle binding. An important paralog of this gene is APOL5.	May affect the movement of lipids in the cytoplasm or allow the binding of lipids to organelles	same
AQP11	empty	AQP11 (Aquaporin 11) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is AQP12A.	Aquaporins facilitate the transport of water and small neutral solutes across cell membranes.	same
AQP12A	empty	AQP12A (Aquaporin 12A) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is AQP12B.	Aquaporins facilitate the transport of water and small neutral solutes across cell membranes.	same
APRT	Adenine phosphoribosyltransferase belongs to the purine/pyrimidine phosphoribosyltransferase family. A conserved feature of this gene is the distribution of CpG dinucleotides. This enzyme catalyzes the formation of AMP and inorganic pyrophosphate from adenine and 5-phosphoribosyl-1-pyrophosphate (PRPP). It also produces adenine as a by-product of the polyamine biosynthesis pathway. A homozygous deficiency in this enzyme causes 2,8-dihydroxyadenine urolithiasis. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	APRT (Adenine Phosphoribosyltransferase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APRT include adenine phosphoribosyltransferase deficiency and dihydroxyadeninuria. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include AMP binding and adenine phosphoribosyltransferase activity.	Catalyzes a salvage reaction resulting in the formation of AMP, that is energically less costly than de novo synthesis	same
AQP1	Aquaporins are a family of small integral membrane proteins related to the major intrinsic protein (MIP or AQP0). This gene encodes an aquaporin which functions as a molecular water channel protein. It is a homotetramer with 6 bilayer spanning domains and N-glycosylation sites. The protein physically resembles channel proteins and is abundant in erythrocytes and renal tubes. The gene encoding this aquaporin is a possible candidate for disorders involving imbalance in ocular fluid movement. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	AQP1 (Aquaporin 1 (Colton Blood Group)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AQP1 include priapism and polyhydramnios. Among its related pathways are Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include potassium channel activity and water channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is MIP.	Forms a water-specific channel that provides the plasma membranes of red cells and kidney proximal tubules with high permeability to water, thereby permitting water to move in the direction of an osmotic gradient.	same
AQP2	This gene encodes a water channel protein located in the kidney collecting tubule. It belongs to the MIP/aquaporin family, some members of which are clustered together on chromosome 12q13. Mutations in this gene have been linked to autosomal dominant and recessive forms of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]	AQP2 (Aquaporin 2 (Collecting Duct)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AQP2 include diabetes insipidus, nephrogenic and hydronephrosis. Among its related pathways are Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency and Glucose / Energy Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding and water transmembrane transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is AQP1.	Forms a water-specific channel that provides the plasma membranes of renal collecting duct with high permeability to water, thereby permitting water to move in the direction of an osmotic gradient	same
AQP12B	empty	AQP12B (Aquaporin 12B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AQP12B include posterior polar cataract. Among its related pathways are Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is AQP12A.	Aquaporins facilitate the transport of water and small neutral solutes across cell membranes.	same
AQP7P1	empty	AQP7P1 (Aquaporin 7 Pseudogene 1) is a Pseudogene.	empty	same
AQP5	Aquaporin 5 (AQP5) is a water channel protein. Aquaporins are a family of small integral membrane proteins related to the major intrinsic protein (MIP or AQP0). Aquaporin 5 plays a role in the generation of saliva, tears and pulmonary secretions. AQP0, AQP2, AQP5, and AQP6 are closely related and all map to 12q13. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AQP5 (Aquaporin 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AQP5 include palmoplantar keratoderma, bothnian type and unna-thost palmoplantar keratoderma. Among its related pathways are Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency and Stabilization and expansion of the E-cadherin adherens junction. GO annotations related to this gene include water channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is AQP1.	Forms a water-specific channel. Implicated in the generation of saliva, tears, and pulmonary secretions	same
AQP4	This gene encodes a member of the aquaporin family of intrinsic membrane proteins that function as water-selective channels in the plasma membranes of many cells. The encoded protein is the predominant aquaporin found in brain. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AQP4 (Aquaporin 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AQP4 include myelitis and transverse myelitis. Among its related pathways are Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency and Spinal Cord Injury. GO annotations related to this gene include porin activity and water transmembrane transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is AQP1.	Forms a water-specific channel. Osmoreceptor which regulates body water balance and mediates water flow within the central nervous system	same
APOE	The protein encoded by this gene is a major apoprotein of the chylomicron. It binds to a specific liver and peripheral cell receptor, and is essential for the normal catabolism of triglyceride-rich lipoprotein constituents. This gene maps to chromosome 19 in a cluster with the related apolipoprotein C1 and C2 genes. Mutations in this gene result in familial dysbetalipoproteinemia, or type III hyperlipoproteinemia (HLP III), in which increased plasma cholesterol and triglycerides are the consequence of impaired clearance of chylomicron and VLDL remnants. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]	APOE (Apolipoprotein E) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APOE include sea-blue histiocyte disease and lipoprotein glomerulopathy. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and protein heterodimerization activity.	Mediates the binding, internalization, and catabolism of lipoprotein particles. It can serve as a ligand for the LDL (apo B/E) receptor and for the specific apo-E receptor (chylomicron remnant) of hepatic tissues	same
APOL5	This gene is a member of the apolipoprotein L gene family. The encoded protein is found in the cytoplasm, where it may affect the movement of lipids or allow the binding of lipids to organelles. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	APOL5 (Apolipoprotein L, 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cholesterol and Sphingolipids transport / Recycling to plasma membrane in lung (normal and CF). GO annotations related to this gene include lipid binding and high-density lipoprotein particle binding. An important paralog of this gene is APOL2.	May affect the movement of lipids in the cytoplasm or allow the binding of lipids to organelles	same
APOO	This gene is a member of the apolipoprotein family. Members of this protein family are involved in the transport and metabolism of lipids. The encoded protein associates with HDL, LDL and VLDL lipoproteins and is characterized by chondroitin-sulfate glycosylation. This protein may be involved in preventing lipid accumulation in the myocardium in obese and diabetic patients. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosomes 3, 4, 5, 12 and 16.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]	APOO (Apolipoprotein O) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is APOOL.	Promotes cholesterol efflux from macrophage cells. Detected in HDL, LDL and VLDL. Secreted by a microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTTP)-dependent mechanism, probably as a VLDL-associated protein that is subsequently transferred to HDL. May be involved in myocardium-protective mechanisms against lipid accumulation.	same
AQP6	The protein encoded by this gene is an aquaporin protein, which functions as a water channel in cells. Aquaporins are a family of small integral membrane proteins related to the major intrinsic protein (MIP or AQP0). This protein is specific for the kidney. This gene and related family members AQP0, AQP2, and AQP5 reside in a cluster on chromosome 12q13. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AQP6 (Aquaporin 6, Kidney Specific) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AQP6 include meniere's disease and renal cell carcinoma. Among its related pathways are Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include water channel activity and nitrate transmembrane transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is AQP1.	Forms a water-specific channel that participates in distinct physiological functions such as glomerular filtration, tubular endocytosis and acid-base metabolism.	same
AQP7P3	empty	AQP7P3 (Aquaporin 7 Pseudogene 3) is a Pseudogene. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity.	empty	same
AQP8	Aquaporin 8 (AQP8) is a water channel protein. Aquaporins are a family of small integral membrane proteins related to the major intrinsic protein (MIP or AQP0). Aquaporin 8 mRNA is found in pancreas and colon but not other tissues. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AQP8 (Aquaporin 8) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AQP8 include polyhydramnios and oligohydramnios. Among its related pathways are Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency and Cellular Senescence. GO annotations related to this gene include water channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is AQP1.	Forms a water-specific channel; mercury-sensitive. Not permeable to glycerol or urea	same
AQPEP	empty	LVRN (Laeverin) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ERAP1.	Metalloprotease which may be important for placentation by regulating biological activity of key peptides at the embryo-maternal interface. On synthetic substrates it shows a marked preference for Leu-4-methylcoumaryl-7-amide (Leu-MCA) over Met-MCA, Arg-LCA and Lys-LCA. Cleaves the N-terminal amino acid of several peptides such as angiotensin-3, kisspeptin-10 and endokinin C.	diff
AQP9	The aquaporins are a family of water-selective membrane channels. The protein encoded by this gene allows passage of a wide variety of noncharged solutes. It stimulates urea transport and osmotic water permeability; there are contradicting reports about its role in providing glycerol permeability. The encoded protein may also play a role in specialized leukocyte functions such as immunological response and bactericidal activity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AQP9 (Aquaporin 9) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AQP9 include hydrarthrosis and polyhydramnios. Among its related pathways are Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include water channel activity and water transmembrane transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is AQP10.	Forms a channel with a broad specificity. Mediates passage of a wide variety of non-charged solutes including carbamides, polyols, purines, and pyrimidines in a phloretin- and mercury-sensitive manner, whereas amino acids, cyclic sugars, Na(+), K(+), Cl(-), and deprotonated monocarboxylates are excluded. Also permeable to urea and glycerol.	same
APP	This gene encodes a cell surface receptor and transmembrane precursor protein that is cleaved by secretases to form a number of peptides. Some of these peptides are secreted and can bind to the acetyltransferase complex APBB1/TIP60 to promote transcriptional activation, while others form the protein basis of the amyloid plaques found in the brains of patients with Alzheimer disease. In addition, two of the peptides are antimicrobial peptides, having been shown to have bacteriocidal and antifungal activities. Mutations in this gene have been implicated in autosomal dominant Alzheimer disease and cerebroarterial amyloidosis (cerebral amyloid angiopathy). Multiple transcript variants encoding several different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2014]	APP (Amyloid Beta (A4) Precursor Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APP include alzheimer disease and cerebral amyloid angiopathy, dutch, italian, iowa, flemish, arctic variants. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and heparin binding. An important paralog of this gene is APLP1.	Functions as a cell surface receptor and performs physiological functions on the surface of neurons relevant to neurite growth, neuronal adhesion and axonogenesis. Involved in cell mobility and transcription regulation through protein-protein interactions. Can promote transcription activation through binding to APBB1-KAT5 and inhibits Notch signaling through interaction with Numb. Couples to apoptosis-inducing pathways such as those mediated by G(O) and JIP. Inhibits G(o) alpha ATPase activity (By similarity). Acts as a kinesin I membrane receptor, mediating the axonal transport of beta-secretase and presenilin 1. Involved in copper homeostasis/oxidative stress through copper ion reduction. In vitro, copper-metallated APP induces neuronal death directly or is potentiated through Cu(2+)-mediated low-density lipoprotein oxidation. Can regulate neurite outgrowth through binding to components of the extracellular matrix such as heparin and collagen I and IV. The splice isoforms that contain the BPTI domain possess protease inhibitor activity. Induces a AGER-dependent pathway that involves activation of p38 MAPK, resulting in internalization of amyloid-beta peptide and leading to mitochondrial dysfunction in cultured cortical neurons. Provides Cu(2+) ions for GPC1 which are required for release of nitric oxide (NO) and subsequent degradation of the heparan sulfate chains on GPC1.	same
APTX	This gene encodes a member of the histidine triad (HIT) superfamily. The encoded protein may play a role in single-stranded DNA repair through its nucleotide-binding activity and its diadenosine polyphosphate hydrolase activity. Mutations in this gene have been associated with ataxia-ocular apraxia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]	APTX (Aprataxin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APTX include ataxia, early-onset, with oculomotor apraxia and hypoalbuminemia and aptx-related coenzyme q10 deficiency. GO annotations related to this gene include chromatin binding and protein N-terminus binding. An important paralog of this gene is PNKP.	DNA-binding protein involved in single-strand DNA break repair, double-strand DNA break repair and base excision repair. Resolves abortive DNA ligation intermediates formed either at base excision sites, or when DNA ligases attempt to repair non-ligatable breaks induced by reactive oxygen species. Catalyzes the release of adenylate groups covalently linked to 5-phosphate termini, resulting in the production of 5-phosphate termini that can be efficiently rejoined. Also able to hydrolyze adenosine 5-monophosphoramidate (AMP-NH(2)) and diadenosine tetraphosphate (AppppA), but with lower catalytic activity.	same
AQR	empty	AQR (Aquarius Intron-Binding Spliceosomal Factor) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Spliceosome. GO annotations related to this gene include pre-mRNA intronic binding. An important paralog of this gene is SETX.	Intron-binding spliceosomal protein required to link pre-mRNA splicing and snoRNP (small nucleolar ribonucleoprotein) biogenesis. Plays a key role in position-dependent assembly of intron-encoded box C/D small snoRNP, splicing being required for snoRNP assembly. May act by helping the folding of the snoRNA sequence. Binds to intron of pre-mRNAs in a sequence-independent manner, contacting the region between snoRNA and the branchpoint of introns (40 nucleotides upstream of the branchpoint) during the late stages of splicing.	same
AQP10	This gene encodes a member of the aquaglyceroporin family of integral membrane proteins. Members of this family function as water-permeable channels in the epithelia of organs that absorb and excrete water. This protein was shown to function as a water-selective channel, and could also permeate neutral solutes such as glycerol and urea. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AQP10 (Aquaporin 10) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is AQP3.	Water channel required to promote glycerol permeability and water transport across cell membranes. May contribute to water transport in the upper portion of small intestine. Isoform 2 is not permeable to urea and glycerol.	same
ARAP1	The protein encoded by this gene contains SAM, ARF-GAP, RHO-GAP, ankyrin repeat, RAS-associating, and pleckstrin homology (PH) domains. In vitro, this protein displays RHO-GAP and phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5) trisphosphate (PIP3)-dependent ARF-GAP activity. The encoded protein associates with the Golgi, and the ARF-GAP activity mediates changes in the Golgi and the formation of filopodia. It is thought to regulate the cell-specific trafficking of a receptor protein involved in apoptosis. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008]	ARAP1 (ArfGAP With RhoGAP Domain, Ankyrin Repeat And PH Domain 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Ras signaling pathway and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphate binding. An important paralog of this gene is ASAP3.	Phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate-dependent GTPase-activating protein that modulates actin cytoskeleton remodeling by regulating ARF and RHO family members. Is activated by phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate (PtdIns(3,4,5)P3) binding. Can be activated by phosphatidylinositol 3,4-bisphosphate (PtdIns(3,4,5)P2) binding, albeit with lower efficiency. Has a preference for ARF1 and ARF5 (By similarity).	same
ARC	empty	ARC (Activity-Regulated Cytoskeleton-Associated Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARC include myoclonus, familial cortical. Among its related pathways are PEDF Induced Signaling and Amphetamine addiction.	Required for consolidation of synaptic plasticity as well as formation of long-term memory. Regulates endocytosis of AMPA receptors in response to synaptic activity. Required for homeostatic synaptic scaling of AMPA receptors (By similarity). Plays a role in the regulation of cell morphology and cytoskeletal organization. Required in the stress fiber dynamics and cell migration.	same
AQP7	Aquaporins/major intrinsic protein (MIP) are a family of water-selective membrane channels. Aquaporin 7 has greater sequence similarity with AQP3 and AQP9 and they may be a subfamily. Aquaporin 7 and AQP3 are at the same chromosomal location suggesting that 9p13 may be a site of an aquaporin cluster. Aquaporin 7 facilitates water, glycerol and urea transport. It may play an important role in sperm function. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AQP7 (Aquaporin 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AQP7 include endolymphatic hydrops and morbid obesity. Among its related pathways are Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency and Integrated Breast Cancer Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include water channel activity and urea channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is AQP10.	Forms a channel for water and glycerol	same
AQP3	This gene encodes the water channel protein aquaporin 3. Aquaporins are a family of small integral membrane proteins related to the major intrinsic protein, also known as aquaporin 0. Aquaporin 3 is localized at the basal lateral membranes of collecting duct cells in the kidney. In addition to its water channel function, aquaporin 3 has been found to facilitate the transport of nonionic small solutes such as urea and glycerol, but to a smaller degree. It has been suggested that water channels can be functionally heterogeneous and possess water and solute permeation mechanisms. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	AQP3 (Aquaporin 3 (Gill Blood Group)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AQP3 include ureteral disease and urinary tract obstruction. Among its related pathways are Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency and Vasopressin-regulated water reabsorption. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity and glycerol channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is AQP10.	Water channel required to promote glycerol permeability and water transport across cell membranes. Acts as a glycerol transporter in skin and plays an important role in regulating SC (stratum corneum) and epidermal glycerol content. Involved in skin hydration, wound healing, and tumorigenesis. Provides kidney medullary collecting duct with high permeability to water, thereby permitting water to move in the direction of an osmotic gradient. Slightly permeable to urea and may function as a water and urea exit mechanism in antidiuresis in collecting duct cells. It may play an important role in gastrointestinal tract water transport and in glycerol metabolism (By similarity).	same
ARAP3	This gene encodes a phosphoinositide binding protein containing ARF-GAP, RHO-GAP, RAS-associating, and pleckstrin homology domains. The ARF-GAP and RHO-GAP domains cooperate in mediating rearrangements in the cell cytoskeleton and cell shape. It is a specific PtdIns(3,4,5)P3/PtdIns(3,4)P2-stimulated Arf6-GAP protein. An alternatively spliced transcript has been found for this gene, but its biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008]	ARAP3 (ArfGAP With RhoGAP Domain, Ankyrin Repeat And PH Domain 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Ras signaling pathway and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphate binding. An important paralog of this gene is ASAP3.	Phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate-dependent GTPase-activating protein that modulates actin cytoskeleton remodeling by regulating ARF and RHO family members. Is activated by phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate (PtdIns(3,4,5)P3) binding. Can be activated by phosphatidylinositol 3,4-bisphosphate (PtdIns(3,4,5)P2) binding, albeit with lower efficiency. Acts on ARF6, RAC1, RHOA and CDC42. Plays a role in the internalization of anthrax toxin.	same
ARAF	This proto-oncogene belongs to the RAF subfamily of the Ser/Thr protein kinase family, and maybe involved in cell growth and development. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]	ARAF (A-Raf Proto-Oncogene, Serine/Threonine Kinase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARAF include mycobacterium marinum. Among its related pathways are Glioma and GPCR Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and MAP kinase kinase kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is MAP3K9.	Involved in the transduction of mitogenic signals from the cell membrane to the nucleus. May also regulate the TOR signaling cascade.	same
ARF1	ADP-ribosylation factor 1 (ARF1) is a member of the human ARF gene family. The family members encode small guanine nucleotide-binding proteins that stimulate the ADP-ribosyltransferase activity of cholera toxin and play a role in vesicular trafficking as activators of phospholipase D. The gene products, including 6 ARF proteins and 11 ARF-like proteins, constitute a family of the RAS superfamily. The ARF proteins are categorized as class I (ARF1, ARF2 and ARF3), class II (ARF4 and ARF5) and class III (ARF6), and members of each class share a common gene organization. The ARF1 protein is localized to the Golgi apparatus and has a central role in intra-Golgi transport. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARF1 (ADP-Ribosylation Factor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARF1 include rheumatic myocarditis and cholera. Among its related pathways are Disease and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding and receptor signaling protein activity. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000272822.	GTP-binding protein that functions as an allosteric activator of the cholera toxin catalytic subunit, an ADP-ribosyltransferase. Involved in protein trafficking among different compartments. Modulates vesicle budding and uncoating within the Golgi complex. Deactivation induces the redistribution of the entire Golgi complex to the endoplasmic reticulum, suggesting a crucial role in protein trafficking. In its GTP-bound form, its triggers the association with coat proteins with the Golgi membrane. The hydrolysis of ARF1-bound GTP, which is mediated by ARFGAPs proteins, is required for dissociation of coat proteins from Golgi membranes and vesicles. The GTP-bound form interacts with PICK1 to limit PICK1-mediated inhibition of Arp2/3 complex activity; the function is linked to AMPA receptor (AMPAR) trafficking, regulation of synaptic plasicity of excitatory synapses and spine shrinkage during long-term depression (LTD)	same
ARF5	This gene is a member of the human ADP-ribosylation factor (ARF) gene family. These genes encode small guanine nucleotide-binding proteins that stimulate the ADP-ribosyltransferase activity of cholera toxin and play a role in vesicular trafficking and as activators of phospholipase D. The gene products include 6 ARF proteins and 11 ARF-like proteins and constitute 1 family of the RAS superfamily. The ARF proteins are categorized as class I (ARF1, ARF2,and ARF3), class II (ARF4 and ARF5) and class III (ARF6). The members of each class share a common gene organization. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]	ARF5 (ADP-Ribosylation Factor 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARF5 include cholera. Among its related pathways are GPCR Pathway and Class I PI3K signaling events. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding and GTPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000272822.	GTP-binding protein that functions as an allosteric activator of the cholera toxin catalytic subunit, an ADP-ribosyltransferase. Involved in protein trafficking; may modulate vesicle budding and uncoating within the Golgi apparatus	same
ARF4	This gene is a member of the human ARF gene family whose members encode small guanine nucleotide-binding proteins that stimulate the ADP-ribosyltransferase activity of cholera toxin and play a role in vesicular trafficking and as activators of phospholipase D. The gene products include 5 ARF proteins and 11 ARF-like proteins and constitute one family of the RAS superfamily. The ARF proteins are categorized as class I, class II and class III; this gene is a class II member. The members of each class share a common gene organization. The ARF4 gene spans approximately 12kb and contains six exons and five introns. This gene is the most divergent member of the human ARFs. Conflicting map positions at 3p14 or 3p21 have been reported for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARF4 (ADP-Ribosylation Factor 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARF4 include cholera. Among its related pathways are GPCR Pathway and ErbB1 downstream signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000272822.	GTP-binding protein that functions as an allosteric activator of the cholera toxin catalytic subunit, an ADP-ribosyltransferase. Involved in protein trafficking; may modulate vesicle budding and uncoating within the Golgi apparatus	same
ARF6	This gene encodes a member of the human ARF gene family, which is part of the RAS superfamily. The ARF genes encode small guanine nucleotide-binding proteins that stimulate the ADP-ribosyltransferase activity of cholera toxin and play a role in vesicular trafficking and as activators of phospholipase D. The product of this gene is localized to the plasma membrane, and regulates vesicular trafficking, remodelling of membrane lipids, and signaling pathways that lead to actin remodeling. A pseudogene of this gene is located on chromosome 7. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARF6 (ADP-Ribosylation Factor 6) is a Protein Coding gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class. Diseases associated with ARF6 include cholera. Among its related pathways are Ras signaling pathway and GPCR Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding and thioesterase binding. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000272822.	GTP-binding protein involved in protein trafficking that regulates endocytic recycling and cytoskeleton remodeling. Required for normal completion of mitotic cytokinesis. Plays a role in the reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton and the formation of stress fibers. May also modulate vesicle budding and uncoating within the Golgi apparatus. Involved in the regulation of dendritic spine development, contributing to the regulation of dendritic branching and filopodia extension. Functions as an allosteric activator of the cholera toxin catalytic subunit, an ADP-ribosyltransferase.	same
ARFGAP2	empty	ARFGAP2 (ADP-Ribosylation Factor GTPase Activating Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Endocytosis. An important paralog of this gene is ARFGAP3.	GTPase-activating protein (GAP) for ADP ribosylation factor 1 (ARF1). Implicated in coatomer-mediated protein transport between the Golgi complex and the endoplasmic reticulum. Hydrolysis of ARF1-bound GTP may lead to dissociation of coatomer from Golgi-derived membranes to allow fusion with target membranes.	same
ARF3	ADP-ribosylation factor 3 (ARF3) is a member of the human ARF gene family. These genes encode small guanine nucleotide-binding proteins that stimulate the ADP-ribosyltransferase activity of cholera toxin and play a role in vesicular trafficking and as activators of phospholipase D. The gene products include 6 ARF proteins and 11 ARF-like proteins and constitute 1 family of the RAS superfamily. The ARF proteins are categorized as class I (ARF1, ARF2,and ARF3), class II (ARF4 and ARF5) and class III (ARF6) and members of each class share a common gene organization. The ARF3 gene contains five exons and four introns. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARF3 (ADP-Ribosylation Factor 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARF3 include distal hereditary motor neuropathy, type ii and cholera. Among its related pathways are GPCR Pathway and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding and GTPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARF6.	GTP-binding protein that functions as an allosteric activator of the cholera toxin catalytic subunit, an ADP-ribosyltransferase. Involved in protein trafficking; may modulate vesicle budding and uncoating within the Golgi apparatus	same
ARFGAP1	The protein encoded by this gene is a GTPase-activating protein, which associates with the Golgi apparatus and which interacts with ADP-ribosylation factor 1. The encoded protein promotes hydrolysis of ADP-ribosylation factor 1-bound GTP and is required for the dissociation of coat proteins from Golgi-derived membranes and vesicles. Dissociation of the coat proteins is required for the fusion of these vesicles with target compartments. The activity of this protein is stimulated by phosphoinosides and inhibited by phosphatidylcholine. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]	ARFGAP1 (ADP-Ribosylation Factor GTPase Activating Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are GPCR Pathway and PAK Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include GTPase activator activity.	GTPase-activating protein (GAP) for the ADP ribosylation factor 1 (ARF1). Involved in membrane trafficking and /or vesicle transport. Promotes hydrolysis of the ARF1-bound GTP and thus, is required for the dissociation of coat proteins from Golgi-derived membranes and vesicles, a prerequisite for vesicles fusion with target compartment. Probably regulates ARF1-mediated transport via its interaction with the KDELR proteins and TMED2. Overexpression induces the redistribution of the entire Golgi complex to the endoplasmic reticulum, as when ARF1 is deactivated. Its activity is stimulated by phosphoinosides and inhibited by phosphatidylcholine (By similarity).	same
ARAP2	The protein encoded by this gene contains ARF-GAP, RHO-GAP, ankyrin repeat, RAS-associating, and pleckstrin homology domains. The protein is a phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-trisphosphate-dependent Arf6 GAP that binds RhoA-GTP, but it lacks the predicted catalytic arginine in the RHO-GAP domain and does not have RHO-GAP activity. The protein associates with focal adhesions and functions downstream of RhoA to regulate focal adhesion dynamics. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008]	ARAP2 (ArfGAP With RhoGAP Domain, Ankyrin Repeat And PH Domain 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARAP2 include loiasis and urinary schistosomiasis. Among its related pathways are Ras signaling pathway and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphate binding. An important paralog of this gene is ASAP3.	Phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate-dependent GTPase-activating protein that modulates actin cytoskeleton remodeling by regulating ARF and RHO family members. Is activated by phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate (PtdIns(3,4,5)P3) binding. Can be activated by phosphatidylinositol 3,4-bisphosphate (PtdIns(3,4,5)P2) binding, albeit with lower efficiency (By similarity).	same
ARFGEF1	ADP-ribosylation factors (ARFs) play an important role in intracellular vesicular trafficking. The protein encoded by this gene is involved in the activation of ARFs by accelerating replacement of bound GDP with GTP. It contains a Sec7 domain, which may be responsible for guanine-nucleotide exchange activity and also brefeldin A inhibition. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	ARFGEF1 (ADP-Ribosylation Factor Guanine Nucleotide-Exchange Factor 1 (Brefeldin A-Inhibited)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity and myosin binding. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000268465.	Promotes guanine-nucleotide exchange on ARF1 and ARF3. Promotes the activation of ARF1/ARF3 through replacement of GDP with GTP. Involved in vesicular trafficking. Required for the maintenance of Golgi structure; the function may be independent of its GEF activity. Required for the maturaion of integrin beta-1 in the Golgi. Involved in the establishment and persistence of cell polarity during directed cell movement in wound healing. Proposed to act as A kinase-anchoring protein (AKAP) and may mediate crosstalk between Arf and PKA pathways. Inhibits GAP activity of MYO9B probably through competetive RhoA binding. The function in the nucleus remains to be determined.	same
ARFIP2	empty	ARFIP2 (ADP-Ribosylation Factor Interacting Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and GPCR Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding and Rac GTPase binding. An important paralog of this gene is ARFIP1.	Putative target protein of ADP-ribosylation factor. Involved in membrane ruffling	same
ARFIP1	empty	ARFIP1 (ADP-Ribosylation Factor Interacting Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and protein domain specific binding. An important paralog of this gene is ARFIP2.	Putative target protein of ADP-ribosylation factor	same
ARGFXP2	Homeobox genes encode DNA-binding proteins, many of which are thought to be involved in early embryonic development. Homeobox genes encode a DNA-binding domain of 60 to 63 amino acids referred to as the homeodomain. This pseudogene is a member of the ARGFX homeobox gene family. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARGFXP2 (Arginine-Fifty Homeobox Pseudogene 2) is a Pseudogene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class.	empty	same
ARFGAP3	The protein encoded by this gene is a GTPase-activating protein (GAP) that associates with the Golgi apparatus and regulates the early secretory pathway of proteins. The encoded protein promotes hydrolysis of ADP-ribosylation factor 1 (ARF1)-bound GTP, which is required for the dissociation of coat proteins from Golgi-derived membranes and vesicles. Dissociation of the coat proteins is a prerequisite for the fusion of these vesicles with target compartments. The activity of this protein is sensitive to phospholipids. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. This gene was originally known as ARFGAP1, but that is now the name of a related but different gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]	ARFGAP3 (ADP-Ribosylation Factor GTPase Activating Protein 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are GPCR Pathway and PAK Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protein transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARFGAP2.	GTPase-activating protein (GAP) for ADP ribosylation factor 1 (ARF1). Hydrolysis of ARF1-bound GTP may lead to dissociation of coatomer from Golgi-derived membranes to allow fusion with target membranes.	same
ARCN1	This gene maps in a region, which include the mixed lineage leukemia and Friend leukemia virus integration 1 genes, where multiple disease-associated chromosome translocations occur. It is an intracellular protein. Archain sequences are well conserved among eukaryotes and this protein may play a fundamental role in eukaryotic cell biology. It has similarities to heat shock proteins and clathrin-associated proteins, and may be involved in vesicle structure or trafficking. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARCN1 (Archain 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are COPI Mediated Transport and COPI Mediated Transport.	The coatomer is a cytosolic protein complex that binds to dilysine motifs and reversibly associates with Golgi non-clathrin-coated vesicles, which further mediate biosynthetic protein transport from the ER, via the Golgi up to the trans Golgi network. Coatomer complex is required for budding from Golgi membranes, and is essential for the retrograde Golgi-to-ER transport of dilysine-tagged proteins. In mammals, the coatomer can only be recruited by membranes associated to ADP-ribosylation factors (ARFs), which are small GTP-binding proteins; the complex also influences the Golgi structural integrity, as well as the processing, activity, and endocytic recycling of LDL receptors (By similarity).	same
ARFRP1	The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane-associated GTP-ase which localizes to the plasma membrane and is related to the ADP-ribosylation factor (ARF) and ARF-like (ARL) proteins. This gene plays a role in membrane trafficking between the trans-Golgi network and endosomes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]	ARFRP1 (ADP-Ribosylation Factor Related Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARFRP1 include wiskott-aldrich syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding and GTPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARL13B.	Trans-Golgi-associated GTPase that regulates protein sorting. Controls the targeting of ARL1 and its effector to the trans-Golgi. Required for the lipidation of chylomicrons in the intestine and required for VLDL lipidation in the liver.	same
ARFGEF2	ADP-ribosylation factors (ARFs) play an important role in intracellular vesicular trafficking. The protein encoded by this gene is involved in the activation of ARFs by accelerating replacement of bound GDP with GTP and is involved in Golgi transport. It contains a Sec7 domain, which may be responsible for its guanine-nucleotide exchange activity and also brefeldin A inhibition. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARFGEF2 (ADP-Ribosylation Factor Guanine Nucleotide-Exchange Factor 2 (Brefeldin A-Inhibited)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARFGEF2 include periventricular heterotopia with microcephaly and x-linked periventricular heterotopia. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Protein folding. GO annotations related to this gene include guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity and ARF guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000268465.	Promotes guanine-nucleotide exchange on ARF1 and ARF3 and to a lower extend on ARF5 and ARF6. Promotes the activation of ARF1/ARF5/ARF6 through replacement of GDP with GTP. Involved in the regulation of Golgi vesicular transport. Required for the integrity of the endosomal compartment. Involved in trafficking from the trans-Golgi network (TGN) to endosomes and is required for membrane association of the AP-1 complex and GGA1. Seems to be involved in recycling of the transferrin receptor from recycling endosomes to the plasma membrane. Probably is involved in the exit of GABA(A) receptors from the endoplasmic reticulum. Involved in constitutive release of tumor necrosis factor receptor 1 via exosome-like vesicles; the function seems to involve PKA and specifically PRKAR2B. Proposed to act as A kinase-anchoring protein (AKAP) and may mediate crosstalk between Arf and PKA pathways.	same
ARG1	Arginase catalyzes the hydrolysis of arginine to ornithine and urea. At least two isoforms of mammalian arginase exist (types I and II) which differ in their tissue distribution, subcellular localization, immunologic crossreactivity and physiologic function. The type I isoform encoded by this gene, is a cytosolic enzyme and expressed predominantly in the liver as a component of the urea cycle. Inherited deficiency of this enzyme results in argininemia, an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by hyperammonemia. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]	ARG1 (Arginase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARG1 include argininemia and q fever. Among its related pathways are NgR-p75(NTR)-Mediated Signaling and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include manganese ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is ARG2.	empty	same
AREG	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the epidermal growth factor family. It is an autocrine growth factor as well as a mitogen for astrocytes, Schwann cells and fibroblasts. It is related to epidermal growth factor (EGF) and transforming growth factor alpha (TGF-alpha). The protein interacts with the EGF/TGF-alpha receptor to promote the growth of normal epithelial cells, and it inhibits the growth of certain aggressive carcinoma cell lines. It also functions in mammary gland, oocyte and bone tissue development. This gene is associated with a psoriasis-like skin phenotype, and is also associated with other pathological disorders, including various types of cancers and inflammatory conditions. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2014]	AREG (Amphiregulin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AREG include anemia of prematurity and ovarian cystadenoma. Among its related pathways are Pathways in cancer and NF-KappaB Family Pathway. An important paralog of this gene is HBEGF.	Ligand of the EGF receptor/EGFR. Autocrine growth factor as well as a mitogen for a broad range of target cells including astrocytes, Schwann cells and fibroblasts	same
ARHGAP10	empty	ARHGAP10 (Rho GTPase Activating Protein 10) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Rho GTPase cycle. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is CHN1.	GTPase activator for the small GTPases RhoA and Cdc42 by converting them to an inactive GDP-bound state. Essential for PTKB2 regulation of cytoskeletal organization via Rho family GTPases. Inhibits PAK2 proteolytic fragment PAK-2p34 kinase activity and changes its localization from the nucleus to the perinuclear region. Stabilizes PAK-2p34 thereby increasing stimulation of cell death (By similarity).	same
ARHGAP11A	empty	ARHGAP11A (Rho GTPase Activating Protein 11A) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Rho GTPase cycle. GO annotations related to this gene include GTPase activator activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARHGAP11B.	empty	same
ARHGAP15	RHO GTPases (see ARHA; MIM 165390) regulate diverse biologic processes, and their activity is regulated by RHO GTPase-activating proteins (GAPs), such as ARHGAP15 (Seoh et al., 2003 [PubMed 12650940]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	ARHGAP15 (Rho GTPase Activating Protein 15) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Rho GTPase cycle. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is CHN1.	GTPase activator for the Rho-type GTPases by converting them to an inactive GDP-bound state. Has activity toward RAC1. Overexpression results in an increase in actin stress fibers and cell contraction.	same
ARHGAP12	This gene encodes a member of a large family of proteins that activate Rho-type guanosine triphosphate (GTP) metabolizing enzymes. The encoded protein may be involved in suppressing tumor formation by regulating cell invasion and adhesion. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]	ARHGAP12 (Rho GTPase Activating Protein 12) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Rho GTPase cycle. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and GTPase activator activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHN1.	GTPase activator for the Rho-type GTPases by converting them to an inactive GDP-bound state.	same
ARG2	Arginase catalyzes the hydrolysis of arginine to ornithine and urea. At least two isoforms of mammalian arginase exists (types I and II) which differ in their tissue distribution, subcellular localization, immunologic crossreactivity and physiologic function. The type II isoform encoded by this gene, is located in the mitochondria and expressed in extra-hepatic tissues, especially kidney. The physiologic role of this isoform is poorly understood; it is thought to play a role in nitric oxide and polyamine metabolism. Transcript variants of the type II gene resulting from the use of alternative polyadenylation sites have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARG2 (Arginase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Carbon metabolism. An important paralog of this gene is ARG1.	May play a role in the regulation of extra-urea cycle arginine metabolism and also in down-regulation of nitric oxide synthesis. Extrahepatic arginase functions to regulate L-arginine bioavailability to NO synthase. Since NO synthase is found in the penile corpus cavernosum smooth muscle, the clitoral corpus cavernosum and the vagina, arginase II plays a role in both male and female sexual arousal. It is therefore a potential target for the treatment of male and female sexual arousal disorders.	same
ARHGAP17	RICH1 is a GTPase-activating protein (GAP). GAPs stimulate the intrinsic GTP hydrolysis of small G proteins, such as RHOA (MIM 165390), RAC1 (MIM 602048), and CDC42 (MIM 116952).[supplied by OMIM, Apr 2004]	ARHGAP17 (Rho GTPase Activating Protein 17) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARHGAP17 include syringomyelia. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and G-protein signaling_Regulation of CDC42 activity. GO annotations related to this gene include GTPase activator activity and SH3 domain binding. An important paralog of this gene is SRGAP3.	Rho GTPase-activating protein involved in the maintenance of tight junction by regulating the activity of CDC42, thereby playing a central role in apical polarity of epithelial cells. Specifically acts as a GTPase activator for the CDC42 GTPase by converting it to an inactive GDP-bound state. The complex formed with AMOT acts by regulating the uptake of polarity proteins at tight junctions, possibly by deciding whether tight junction transmembrane proteins are recycled back to the plasma membrane or sent elsewhere. Participates in the Ca(2+)-dependent regulation of exocytosis, possibly by catalyzing GTPase activity of Rho family proteins and by inducing the reorganization of the cortical actin filaments. Acts as a GTPase activator in vitro for RAC1.	same
ARHGAP11B	empty	ARHGAP11B (Rho GTPase Activating Protein 11B) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Rho GTPase cycle. GO annotations related to this gene include GTPase activator activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARHGAP11A.	Hominin-specific protein that promotes development and evolutionary expansion of the brain neocortex. Able to promote amplification of basal progenitors in the subventricular zone, producing more neurons during fetal corticogenesis (PubMed:25721503). Does not posses GTPase activator activity (PubMed:25721503).	same
ARHGAP19	Members of the ARHGAP family, such as ARHGAP19, encode negative regulators of Rho GTPases (see RHOA; MIM 165390), which are involved in cell migration, proliferation, and differentiation, actin remodeling, and G1 cell cycle progression (Lv et al., 2007 [PubMed 17454002]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	ARHGAP19 (Rho GTPase Activating Protein 19) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Rho GTPase cycle. GO annotations related to this gene include GTPase activator activity. An important paralog of this gene is HMHA1.	GTPase activator for the Rho-type GTPases by converting them to an inactive GDP-bound state.	same
ARHGAP20	empty	ARHGAP20 (Rho GTPase Activating Protein 20) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Rho GTPase cycle. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and GTPase activator activity. An important paralog of this gene is TAGAP.	GTPase activator for the Rho-type GTPases by converting them to an inactive GDP-bound state.	same
ARHGAP18	ARHGAP18 belongs to a family of Rho (see MIM 165390) GTPase-activating proteins that modulate cell signaling (Potkin et al., 2009 [PubMed 19065146]).[supplied by OMIM, Apr 2010]	ARHGAP18 (Rho GTPase Activating Protein 18) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Rho GTPase cycle. GO annotations related to this gene include GTPase activator activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARHGAP11A.	GTPase activator for the Rho-type GTPases by converting them to an inactive GDP-bound state.	same
ARHGAP21	ARHGAP21 functions preferentially as a GTPase-activating protein (GAP) for CDC42 (MIM 116952) and regulates the ARP2/3 complex (MIM 604221) and F-actin dynamics at the Golgi through control of CDC42 activity (Dubois et al., 2005 [PubMed 15793564]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	ARHGAP21 (Rho GTPase Activating Protein 21) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Rho GTPase cycle. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and GTPase activator activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHN1.	Functions as a GTPase-activating protein (GAP) for RHOA and CDC42. Downstream partner of ARF1 which may control Golgi apparatus structure and function. Also required for CTNNA1 recruitment to adherens junctions.	same
ARHGAP22	This gene encodes a member of the GTPase activating protein family which activates a GTPase belonging to the RAS superfamily of small GTP-binding proteins. The encoded protein is insulin-responsive, is dependent on the kinase Akt and requires the Akt-dependent 14-3-3 binding protein which binds sequentially to two serine residues. The result of these interactions is regulation of cell motility. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	ARHGAP22 (Rho GTPase Activating Protein 22) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Rho GTPase cycle. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and GTPase activator activity. An important paralog of this gene is SRGAP3.	Rho GTPase-activating protein involved in the signal transduction pathway that regulates endothelial cell capillary tube formation during angiogenesis. Acts as a GTPase activator for the RAC1 by converting it to an inactive GDP-bound state. Inhibits RAC1-dependent lamellipodia formation. May also play a role in transcription regulation via its interaction with VEZF1, by regulating activity of the endothelin-1 (EDN1) promoter (By similarity).	same
ARHGAP23	The RHO (see ARHA; MIM 165390) family of small GTPases are involved in signal transduction through transmembrane receptors, and they are inactive in the GDP-bound form and active in the GTP-bound form. GTPase-activating proteins, such as ARHGAP23, inactivate RHO family proteins by stimulating their hydrolysis of GTP (Katoh and Katoh, 2004 [PubMed 15254754]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	ARHGAP23 (Rho GTPase Activating Protein 23) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Rho GTPase cycle. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and GTPase activator activity.	GTPase activator for the Rho-type GTPases by converting them to an inactive GDP-bound state.	same
ARHGAP1	This gene encodes a member of a large family of proteins that activate Rho-type guanosine triphosphate (GTP) metabolizing enzymes. The encoded protein contains a SRC homology 3 domain and interacts with Bcl-2-associated protein family members. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012]	ARHGAP1 (Rho GTPase Activating Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARHGAP1 include noma. Among its related pathways are RhoGDI Pathway and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include SH3 domain binding. An important paralog of this gene is PRR5-ARHGAP8.	GTPase activator for the Rho, Rac and Cdc42 proteins, converting them to the putatively inactive GDP-bound state. Cdc42 seems to be the preferred substrate	same
ARHGAP27	This gene encodes a member of a large family of proteins that activate Rho-type guanosine triphosphate (GTP) metabolizing enzymes. The encoded protein may pay a role in clathrin-mediated endocytosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2013]	ARHGAP27 (Rho GTPase Activating Protein 27) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is CHN1.	Rho GTPase-activating protein which may be involved in clathrin-mediated endocytosis. GTPase activators for the Rho-type GTPases act by converting them to an inactive GDP-bound state. Has activity toward CDC42 and RAC1 (By similarity).	same
ARHGAP24	ARHGAPs, such as ARHGAP24, encode negative regulators of Rho GTPases (see ARHA; MIM 165390), which are implicated in actin remodeling, cell polarity, and cell migration (Katoh and Katoh, 2004 [PubMed 15254788]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	ARHGAP24 (Rho GTPase Activating Protein 24) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARHGAP24 include familial idiopathic steroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome with focal segmental hyalinosis. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Rho GTPase cycle. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is SRGAP3.	Rho GTPase-activating protein involved in cell polarity, cell morphology and cytoskeletal organization. Acts as a GTPase activator for the Rac-type GTPase by converting it to an inactive GDP-bound state. Controls actin remodeling by inactivating Rac downstream of Rho leading to suppress leading edge protrusion and promotes cell retraction to achieve cellular polarity. Able to suppress RAC1 and CDC42 activity in vitro. Overexpression induces cell rounding with partial or complete disruption of actin stress fibers and formation of membrane ruffles, lamellipodia, and filopodia. Isoform 2 is a vascular cell-specific GAP involved in modulation of angiogenesis.	same
ARHGAP26	Interaction of a cell with the extracellular matrix triggers integrin cell surface receptors to begin signaling cascades that regulate the organization of the actin-cytoskeleton. One of the proteins involved in these cascades is focal adhesion kinase. The protein encoded by this gene is a GTPase activating protein that binds to focal adhesion kinase and mediates the activity of the GTP binding proteins RhoA and Cdc42. Defects in this gene are a cause of juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia (JMML). Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]	ARHGAP26 (Rho GTPase Activating Protein 26) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARHGAP26 include leukemia, juvenile myelomonocytic. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Rho GTPase cycle. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is CHN1.	GTPase-activating protein for RHOA and CDC42	same
ARGFX	Homeobox genes encode DNA-binding proteins, many of which are thought to be involved in early embryonic development. Homeobox genes encode a DNA-binding domain of 60 to 63 amino acids referred to as the homeodomain. This gene is a member of the ARGFX homeobox gene family. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARGFX (Arginine-Fifty Homeobox) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and sequence-specific DNA binding.	Putative transcription factor.	same
ARHGAP25	ARHGAPs, such as ARHGAP25, encode negative regulators of Rho GTPases (see ARHA; MIM 165390), which are implicated in actin remodeling, cell polarity, and cell migration (Katoh and Katoh, 2004 [PubMed 15254788]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	ARHGAP25 (Rho GTPase Activating Protein 25) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Rho GTPase cycle. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and GTPase activator activity. An important paralog of this gene is SRGAP3.	GTPase activator for the Rho-type GTPases by converting them to an inactive GDP-bound state.	same
ARHGAP29	empty	ARHGAP29 (Rho GTPase Activating Protein 29) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Rho GTPase cycle. An important paralog of this gene is HMHA1.	GTPase activator for the Rho-type GTPases by converting them to an inactive GDP-bound state. Has strong activity toward RHOA, and weaker activity toward RAC1 and CDC42. May act as a specific effector of RAP2A to regulate Rho. In concert with RASIP1, suppresses RhoA signaling and dampens ROCK and MYH9 activities in endothelial cells and plays an essential role in blood vessel tubulogenesis.	same
ARHGAP36	empty	ARHGAP36 (Rho GTPase Activating Protein 36) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Rho GTPase cycle. GO annotations related to this gene include GTPase activator activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARHGAP11A.	GTPase activator for the Rho-type GTPases by converting them to an inactive GDP-bound state.	same
ARHGAP31	This gene encodes a GTPase-activating protein (GAP). A variety of cellular processes are regulated by Rho GTPases which cycle between an inactive form bound to GDP and an active form bound to GTP. This cycling between inactive and active forms is regulated by guanine nucleotide exchange factors and GAPs. The encoded protein is a GAP shown to regulate two GTPases involved in protein trafficking and cell growth. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARHGAP31 (Rho GTPase Activating Protein 31) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARHGAP31 include adams-oliver syndrome 1 and adams-oliver syndrome. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and G-protein signaling_Regulation of CDC42 activity. GO annotations related to this gene include GTPase activator activity and SH3 domain binding. An important paralog of this gene is ARHGAP30.	Functions as a GTPase-activating protein (GAP) for RAC1 and CDC42. Required for cell spreading, polarized lamellipodia formation and cell migration.	same
ARHGAP28	empty	ARHGAP28 (Rho GTPase Activating Protein 28) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Rho GTPase cycle. GO annotations related to this gene include GTPase activator activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARHGAP11A.	GTPase activator for the Rho-type GTPases by converting them to an inactive GDP-bound state.	same
ARHGAP32	RICS is a neuron-associated GTPase-activating protein that may regulate dendritic spine morphology and strength by modulating Rho GTPase (see RHOA; MIM 165390) activity (Okabe et al., 2003 [PubMed 12531901]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	ARHGAP32 (Rho GTPase Activating Protein 32) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARHGAP32 include schizotypal personality disorder. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and G-protein signaling_Regulation of CDC42 activity. GO annotations related to this gene include GTPase activator activity and phosphatidylinositol binding. An important paralog of this gene is ARHGAP31.	GTPase-activating protein (GAP) promoting GTP hydrolysis on RHOA, CDC42 and RAC1 small GTPases. May be involved in the differentiation of neuronal cells during the formation of neurite extensions. Involved in NMDA receptor activity-dependent actin reorganization in dendritic spines. May mediate cross-talks between Ras- and Rho-regulated signaling pathways in cell growth regulation. Isoform 2 has higher GAP activity (By similarity).	same
ARHGAP4	This gene encodes a member of the rhoGAP family of proteins which play a role in the regulation of small GTP-binding proteins belonging to the RAS superfamily. The protein encoded by the orthologous gene in rat is localized to the Golgi complex and can redistribute to microtubules. The rat protein stimulates the activity of some Rho GTPases in vitro. Genomic deletions of this gene and a neighboring gene have been found in patients with nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]	ARHGAP4 (Rho GTPase Activating Protein 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARHGAP4 include diabetes insipidus, nephrogenic. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and RhoGDI Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include SH3/SH2 adaptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is SRGAP3.	Inhibitory effect on stress fiber organization. May down-regulate Rho-like GTPase in hematopoietic cells	same
ARGLU1	empty	ARGLU1 (Arginine And Glutamate Rich 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	Required for the estrogen-dependent expression of ESR1 target genes. Can act in cooperation with MED1.	same
ARHGAP8	This gene encodes a member of the RHOGAP family. GAP (GTPase-activating) family proteins participate in signaling pathways that regulate cell processes involved in cytoskeletal changes. GAP proteins alternate between an active (GTP-bound) and inactive (GDP-bound) state based on the GTP:GDP ratio in the cell. This family member is a multidomain protein that functions to promote Erk activation and cell motility. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Read-through transcripts from the upstream proline rich 5, renal (PRR5) gene into this gene also exist, which led to the original description of PRR5 and ARHGAP8 being a single gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]	ARHGAP8 (Rho GTPase Activating Protein 8) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Rho GTPase cycle. An important paralog of this gene is PRUNE2.	GTPase activator for the Rho-type GTPases by converting them to an inactive GDP-bound state.	same
ARHGAP39	empty	ARHGAP39 (Rho GTPase Activating Protein 39) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and L1CAM interactions.	empty	same
ARHGAP42	empty	ARHGAP42 (Rho GTPase Activating Protein 42) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cytoskeletal Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and GTPase activator activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHN1.	May influence blood pressure by functioning as a GTPase-activating protein for RHOA in vascular smooth muscle.	same
ARHGAP30	empty	ARHGAP30 (Rho GTPase Activating Protein 30) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Rho GTPase cycle. GO annotations related to this gene include GTPase activator activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARHGAP31.	GTPase-activating protein (GAP) for RAC1 and RHOA, but not for CDC42.	same
ARHGAP5	Rho GTPase activating protein 5 negatively regulates RHO GTPases, a family which may mediate cytoskeleton changes by stimulating the hydrolysis of bound GTP. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARHGAP5 (Rho GTPase Activating Protein 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are RhoGDI Pathway and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding and SH2 domain binding. An important paralog of this gene is SRGAP3.	GTPase-activating protein for Rho family members. May play a role in the reduction of the p21rasGTPase-activating potential of RASA1/p120GAP	same
ARHGAP33	This gene encodes a member of the sorting nexin family. Members of this family contain a phox (PX) domain, which is a phosphoinositide binding domain, and are involved in intracellular trafficking. Alternative splice variants encoding different isoforms have been identified in this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]	ARHGAP33 (Rho GTPase Activating Protein 33) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARHGAP33 include noma. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Rho GTPase cycle. GO annotations related to this gene include phosphatidylinositol binding. An important paralog of this gene is ARHGAP31.	May be involved in several stages of intracellular trafficking. Could play an important role in the regulation of glucose transport by insulin. May act as a downstream effector of RHOQ/TC10 in the regulation of insulin-stimulated glucose transport (By similarity).	same
ARHGAP6	This gene encodes a member of the rhoGAP family of proteins which play a role in the regulation of actin polymerization at the plasma membrane during several cellular processes. This protein is thought to have two independent functions, one as a GTPase-activating protein with specificity for RhoA, and another as a cytoskeletal protein that promotes actin remodeling. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARHGAP6 (Rho GTPase Activating Protein 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Rho GTPase cycle. GO annotations related to this gene include SH3 domain binding. An important paralog of this gene is ARHGAP11A.	GTPase activator for the Rho-type GTPases by converting them to an inactive GDP-bound state. Could regulate the interactions of signaling molecules with the actin cytoskeleton. Promotes continuous elongation of cytoplasmic processes during cell motility and simultaneous retraction of the cell body changing the cell morphology.	same
ARHGAP9	This gene encodes a member of the Rho-GAP family of GTPase activating proteins. The protein has substantial GAP activity towards several Rho-family GTPases in vitro, converting them to an inactive GDP-bound state. It is implicated in regulating adhesion of hematopoietic cells to the extracellular matrix. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARHGAP9 (Rho GTPase Activating Protein 9) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Ras signaling pathway and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and GTPase activator activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHN1.	GTPase activator for the Rho-type GTPases by converting them to an inactive GDP-bound state. Has a substantial GAP activity toward CDC42 and RAC1 and less toward RHOA. Has a role in regulating adhesion of hematopoietic cells to the extracellular matrix. Binds phosphoinositides, and has the highest affinity for phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate, followed by phosphatidylinositol 3,4-bisphosphate and phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate.	same
ARHGDIG	The GDP-dissociation inhibitors (GDIs) play a primary role in modulating the activation of GTPases by inhibiting the exchange of GDP for GTP. See ARHGDIB (MIM 602843).[supplied by OMIM, Nov 2010]	ARHGDIG (Rho GDP Dissociation Inhibitor (GDI) Gamma) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are RhoGDI Pathway and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include GTPase activator activity and Rho GDP-dissociation inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARHGDIB.	Inhibits GDP/GTP exchange reaction of RhoB. Interacts specifically with the GDP- and GTP-bound forms of post-translationally processed Rhob and Rhog proteins, both of which show a growth-regulated expression in mammalian cells. Stimulates the release of the GDP-bound but not the GTP-bound RhoB protein. Also inhibits the GDP/GTP exchange of RhoB but shows less ability to inhibit the dissociation of prebound GTP	same
ARHGEF12	Rho GTPases play a fundamental role in numerous cellular processes that are initiated by extracellular stimuli working through G protein-coupled receptors. The encoded protein may form a complex with G proteins and stimulate Rho-dependent signals. This protein has been observed to form a myeloid/lymphoid fusion partner in acute myeloid leukemia. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]	ARHGEF12 (Rho Guanine Nucleotide Exchange Factor (GEF) 12) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARHGEF12 include leukemia, acute myeloid and leukemia. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and RhoGDI Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and Rho guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARHGEF11.	May play a role in the regulation of RhoA GTPase by guanine nucleotide-binding alpha-12 (GNA12) and alpha-13 (GNA13). Acts as guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) for RhoA GTPase and may act as GTPase-activating protein (GAP) for GNA12 and GNA13.	same
ARHGEF15	Rho GTPases play a fundamental role in numerous cellular processes that are initiated by extracellular stimuli that work through G protein-coupled receptors. This gene encodes a protein that functions as a specific guanine nucleotide exchange factor for RhoA. It also interacts with ephrin A4 in vascular smooth muscle cells. Two alternatively spliced transcripts variants that encode the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]	ARHGEF15 (Rho Guanine Nucleotide Exchange Factor (GEF) 15) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are RhoGDI Pathway and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include GTPase activator activity and Rho guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARHGEF19.	Specific GEF for RhoA activation. Does not activate RAC1 or CDC42. Regulates vascular smooth muscle contractility. Negatively regulates excitatory synapse development by suppressing the synapse-promoting activity of EPHB2.	same
ARHGEF16	Although the specific function of this protein is not known yet, it is thought to be involved in protein-protein and protein-lipid interactions. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARHGEF16 (Rho Guanine Nucleotide Exchange Factor (GEF) 16) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARHGEF16 include neuroblastoma. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and RhoGDI Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and Rho guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARHGEF19.	Guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor of the RHOG GTPase stimulating the exchange of RHOG-associated GDP for GTP. May play a role in chemotactic cell migration by mediating the activation of RAC1 by EPHA2. May also activate CDC42 and mediate activation of CDC42 by the viral protein HPV16 E6.	same
ARHGEF17	empty	ARHGEF17 (Rho Guanine Nucleotide Exchange Factor (GEF) 17) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity and Rho guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARHGEF10L.	Acts as guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) for RhoA GTPases.	same
ARHGEF33	empty	ARHGEF33 (Rho Guanine Nucleotide Exchange Factor (GEF) 33) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include Rho guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity.	May act as a guanine-nucleotide releasing factor.	same
ARHGEF2	Rho GTPases play a fundamental role in numerous cellular processes that are initiated by extracellular stimuli that work through G protein coupled receptors. The encoded protein may form complex with G proteins and stimulate rho-dependent signals. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]	ARHGEF2 (Rho/Rac Guanine Nucleotide Exchange Factor (GEF) 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and RhoGDI Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and microtubule binding. An important paralog of this gene is ARHGEF11.	Activates Rho-GTPases by promoting the exchange of GDP for GTP. May be involved in epithelial barrier permeability, cell motility and polarization, dendritic spine morphology, antigen presentation, leukemic cell differentiation, cell cycle regulation, innate immune response, and cancer. Binds Rac-GTPases, but does not seem to promote nucleotide exchange activity toward Rac-GTPases, which was uniquely reported in PubMed:9857026. May stimulate instead the cortical activity of Rac. Inactive toward CDC42, TC10, or Ras-GTPases. Forms an intracellular sensing system along with NOD1 for the detection of microbial effectors during cell invasion by pathogens. Required for RHOA and RIP2 dependent NF-kappaB signaling pathways activation upon S.flexneri cell invasion. Involved not only in sensing peptidoglycan (PGN)-derived muropeptides through NOD1 that is independent of its GEF activity, but also in the activation of NF-kappaB by Shigella effector proteins (IpgB2 and OspB) which requires its GEF activity and the activation of RhoA. Involved in innate immune signaling transduction pathway promoting cytokine IL6/interleukin-6 and TNF-alpha secretion in macrophage upon stimulation by bacterial peptidoglycans; acts as a signaling intermediate between NOD2 receptor and RIPK2 kinase. Contributes to the tyrosine phosphorylation of RIPK2 through Src tyrosine kinase leading to NF-kappaB activation by NOD2.	same
ARHGDIA	This gene encodes a protein that plays a key role in the regulation of signaling through Rho GTPases. The encoded protein inhibits the disassociation of Rho family members from GDP (guanine diphosphate), thereby maintaining these factors in an inactive state. Activity of this protein is important in a variety of cellular processes, and expression of this gene may be altered in tumors. Mutations in this gene have been found in individuals with nephrotic syndrome, type 8. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]	ARHGDIA (Rho GDP Dissociation Inhibitor (GDI) Alpha) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARHGDIA include nephrotic syndrome, type 8 and nephrotic syndrome, idiopathic, steroid-resistant. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and RhoGDI Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include GTPase activator activity and Rho GDP-dissociation inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARHGDIG.	Controls Rho proteins homeostasis. Regulates the GDP/GTP exchange reaction of the Rho proteins by inhibiting the dissociation of GDP from them, and the subsequent binding of GTP to them. Retains Rho proteins such as CDC42, RAC1 and RHOA in an inactive cytosolic pool, regulating their stability and protecting them from degradation. Actively involved in the recycling and distribution of activated Rho GTPases in the cell, mediates extraction from membranes of both inactive and activated molecules due its exceptionally high affinity for prenylated forms. Through the modulation of Rho proteins, may play a role in cell motility regulation. In glioma cells, inhibits cell migration and invasion by mediating the signals of SEMA5A and PLXNB3 that lead to inactivation of RAC1.	same
ARHGEF35	empty	ARHGEF35 (Rho Guanine Nucleotide Exchange Factor (GEF) 35) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
ARHGEF37	empty	ARHGEF37 (Rho Guanine Nucleotide Exchange Factor (GEF) 37) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include Rho guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is DNMBP.	May act as a guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF).	same
ARHGEF4	Rho GTPases play a fundamental role in numerous cellular processes that are initiated by extracellular stimuli that work through G protein coupled receptors. The protein encoded by this gene may form complex with G proteins and stimulate Rho-dependent signals. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found, but the full-length nature of some variants has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2013]	ARHGEF4 (Rho Guanine Nucleotide Exchange Factor (GEF) 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARHGEF4 include adenomatous polyposis coli. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and RhoGDI Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARHGEF7.	Acts as guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) for RHOA, RAC1 and CDC42 GTPases. Binding of APC may activate RAC1 GEF activity. The APC-ARHGEF4 complex seems to be involved in cell migration as well as in E-cadherin-mediated cell-cell adhesion. Required for MMP9 up-regulation via the JNK signaling pathway in colorectal tumor cells. Involved in tumor angiogenesis and may play a role in intestinal adenoma formation and tumor progression.	same
ARHGDIB	Members of the Rho (or ARH) protein family (see MIM 165390) and other Ras-related small GTP-binding proteins (see MIM 179520) are involved in diverse cellular events, including cell signaling, proliferation, cytoskeletal organization, and secretion. The GTP-binding proteins are active only in the GTP-bound state. At least 3 classes of proteins tightly regulate cycling between the GTP-bound and GDP-bound states: GTPase-activating proteins (GAPs), guanine nucleotide-releasing factors (GRFs), and GDP-dissociation inhibitors (GDIs). The GDIs, including ARHGDIB, decrease the rate of GDP dissociation from Ras-like GTPases (summary by Scherle et al., 1993 [PubMed 8356058]).[supplied by OMIM, Dec 2010]	ARHGDIB (Rho GDP Dissociation Inhibitor (GDI) Beta) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are RhoGDI Pathway and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include GTPase activator activity and Rho GDP-dissociation inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARHGDIG.	Regulates the GDP/GTP exchange reaction of the Rho proteins by inhibiting the dissociation of GDP from them, and the subsequent binding of GTP to them	same
ARHGEF10L	ARHGEF10L is a member of the RhoGEF family of guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) that activate Rho GTPases (Winkler et al., 2005 [PubMed 16112081]).[supplied by OMIM, Dec 2008]	ARHGEF10L (Rho Guanine Nucleotide Exchange Factor (GEF) 10-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Regulation of RhoA activity and G-protein signaling_RhoB regulation pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include Rho guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARHGEF10.	Acts as guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) for RHOA, RHOB and RHOC.	same
ARHGEF19	Guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) such as ARHGEF19 accelerate the GTPase activity of Rho GTPases (see RHOA, MIM 165390).[supplied by OMIM, Dec 2008]	ARHGEF19 (Rho Guanine Nucleotide Exchange Factor (GEF) 19) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARHGEF19 include blepharitis. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and Rho guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARHGEF16.	Acts as guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) for RhoA GTPase.	same
ARHGEF9	The protein encoded by this gene is a Rho-like GTPase that switches between the active (GTP-bound) state and inactive (GDP-bound) state to regulate CDC42 and other genes. Defects in this gene are a cause of startle disease with epilepsy (STHEE), also known as hyperekplexia with epilepsy. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]	ARHGEF9 (Cdc42 Guanine Nucleotide Exchange Factor (GEF) 9) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARHGEF9 include epileptic encephalopathy, early infantile, 8 and arhgef9-related hyperekplexia. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and RhoGDI Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and Rho guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARHGEF7.	Acts as guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) for CDC42. Promotes formation of GPHN clusters.	same
ARHGEF10	Rho GTPases play a fundamental role in numerous cellular processes that are initiated by extracellular stimuli that work through G protein coupled receptors. The encoded protein may form complex with G proteins and stimulate Rho-dependent signals. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARHGEF10 (Rho Guanine Nucleotide Exchange Factor (GEF) 10) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARHGEF10 include slowed nerve conduction velocity, ad. Among its related pathways are RhoGDI Pathway and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include Rho guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity and kinesin binding. An important paralog of this gene is ARHGEF10L.	May play a role in developmental myelination of peripheral nerves.	same
ARHGEF7	Rho GTPases play a fundamental role in numerous cellular processes triggered by extracellular stimuli that work through G protein coupled receptors. The encoded protein belongs to a family of cytoplasmic proteins that activate the Ras-like family of Rho proteins by exchanging bound GDP for GTP. It forms a complex with the small GTP binding protein Rac1 and recruits Rac1 to membrane ruffles and to focal adhesions. This protein can induce membrane ruffling. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARHGEF7 (Rho Guanine Nucleotide Exchange Factor (GEF) 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARHGEF7 include borjeson-forssman-lehmann syndrome. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARHGEF6.	Acts as a RAC1 guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) and can induce membrane ruffling. Functions in cell migration, attachment and cell spreading. Promotes targeting of RAC1 to focal adhesions (By similarity). May function as a positive regulator of apoptosis. Downstream of NMDA receptors and CaMKK-CaMK1 signaling cascade, promotes the formation of spines and synapses in hippocampal neurons.	same
ARID1A	This gene encodes a member of the SWI/SNF family, whose members have helicase and ATPase activities and are thought to regulate transcription of certain genes by altering the chromatin structure around those genes. The encoded protein is part of the large ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling complex SNF/SWI, which is required for transcriptional activation of genes normally repressed by chromatin. It possesses at least two conserved domains that could be important for its function. First, it has a DNA-binding domain that can specifically bind an AT-rich DNA sequence known to be recognized by a SNF/SWI complex at the beta-globin locus. Second, the C-terminus of the protein can stimulate glucocorticoid receptor-dependent transcriptional activation. It is thought that the protein encoded by this gene confers specificity to the SNF/SWI complex and may recruit the complex to its targets through either protein-DNA or protein-protein interactions. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARID1A (AT Rich Interactive Domain 1A (SWI-Like)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARID1A include mental retardation, autosomal dominant 14 and coffin-siris syndrome. Among its related pathways are Transcription Ligand-dependent activation of the ESR1/SP pathway and Prostate Cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include transcription coactivator activity and ligand-dependent nuclear receptor binding. An important paralog of this gene is ARID3B.	Involved in transcriptional activation and repression of select genes by chromatin remodeling (alteration of DNA-nucleosome topology). Binds DNA non-specifically. Belongs to the neural progenitors-specific chromatin remodeling complex (npBAF complex) and the neuron-specific chromatin remodeling complex (nBAF complex). During neural development a switch from a stem/progenitor to a post-mitotic chromatin remodeling mechanism occurs as neurons exit the cell cycle and become committed to their adult state. The transition from proliferating neural stem/progenitor cells to post-mitotic neurons requires a switch in subunit composition of the npBAF and nBAF complexes. As neural progenitors exit mitosis and differentiate into neurons, npBAF complexes which contain ACTL6A/BAF53A and PHF10/BAF45A, are exchanged for homologous alternative ACTL6B/BAF53B and DPF1/BAF45B or DPF3/BAF45C subunits in neuron-specific complexes (nBAF). The npBAF complex is essential for the self-renewal/proliferative capacity of the multipotent neural stem cells. The nBAF complex along with CREST plays a role regulating the activity of genes essential for dendrite growth (By similarity).	same
ARHGEF6	Rho GTPases play a fundamental role in numerous cellular processes that are initiated by extracellular stimuli that work through G protein coupled receptors. The encoded protein belongs to a family of cytoplasmic proteins that activate the Ras-like family of Rho proteins by exchanging bound GDP for GTP. It may form a complex with G proteins and stimulate Rho-dependent signals. This protein is activated by PI3-kinase. Mutations in this gene can cause X-chromosomal non-specific mental retardation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARHGEF6 (Rac/Cdc42 Guanine Nucleotide Exchange Factor (GEF) 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARHGEF6 include non-syndromic x-linked intellectual disability and borjeson-forssman-lehmann syndrome. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and RhoGDI Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and Rho guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARHGEF7.	Acts as a RAC1 guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF)	same
ARHGEF3	Rho-like GTPases are involved in a variety of cellular processes, and they are activated by binding GTP and inactivated by conversion of GTP to GDP by their intrinsic GTPase activity. Guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) accelerate the GTPase activity of Rho GTPases by catalyzing their release of bound GDP. This gene encodes a guanine nucleotide exchange factor, which specifically activates two members of the Rho GTPase family: RHOA and RHOB, both of which have a role in bone cell biology. It has been identified that genetic variation in this gene plays a role in the determination of bone mineral density (BMD), indicating the implication of this gene in postmenopausal osteoporosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARHGEF3 (Rho Guanine Nucleotide Exchange Factor (GEF) 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARHGEF3 include osteoporosis. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and RhoGDI Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and Rho guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARHGEF11.	Acts as guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) for RhoA and RhoB GTPases.	same
ARHGEF18	Rho GTPases are GTP binding proteins that regulate a wide spectrum of cellular functions. These cellular processes include cytoskeletal rearrangements, gene transcription, cell growth and motility. Activation of Rho GTPases is under the direct control of guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs). The protein encoded by this gene is a guanine nucleotide exchange factor and belongs to the Rho GTPase GFE family. Family members share a common feature, a Dbl (DH) homology domain followed by a pleckstrin (PH) homology domain. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]	ARHGEF18 (Rho/Rac Guanine Nucleotide Exchange Factor (GEF) 18) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and Rho guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARHGEF11.	Acts as guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) for RhoA GTPases. May play a role in actin cytoskeleton reorganization in different tissues since its activation induces formation of actin stress fibers. Also act as a GEF for RAC1, inducing production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Does not act as a GEF for CDC42. The G protein beta-gamma (Gbetagamma) subunits of heterotrimeric G proteins act as activators, explaining the integrated effects of LPA and other G-protein coupled receptor agonists on actin stress fiber formation, cell shape change and ROS production.	same
ARID3A	This gene encodes a member of the ARID (AT-rich interaction domain) family of DNA binding proteins. It was found by homology to the Drosophila dead ringer gene, which is important for normal embryogenesis. Other ARID family members have roles in embryonic patterning, cell lineage gene regulation, cell cycle control, transcriptional regulation, and possibly in chromatin structure modification. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARID3A (AT Rich Interactive Domain 3A (BRIGHT-Like)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Direct p53 effectors. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and chromatin binding. An important paralog of this gene is ARID3B.	Transcription factor which may be involved in the control of cell cycle progression by the RB1/E2F1 pathway and in B-cell differentiation.	same
ARHGEF38	empty	ARHGEF38 (Rho Guanine Nucleotide Exchange Factor (GEF) 38) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include Rho guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is DNMBP.	May act as a guanine-nucleotide releasing factor.	same
ARID4A	The protein encoded by this gene is a ubiquitously expressed nuclear protein. It binds directly, with several other proteins, to retinoblastoma protein (pRB) which regulates cell proliferation. pRB represses transcription by recruiting the encoded protein. This protein, in turn, serves as a bridging molecule to recruit HDACs and, in addition, provides a second HDAC-independent repression function. The encoded protein possesses transcriptional repression activity. Multiple alternatively spliced transcripts have been observed for this gene, although not all transcript variants have been fully described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARID4A (AT Rich Interactive Domain 4A (RBP1-Like)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARID4A include retinoblastoma. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARID5A.	Interacts with the viral protein-binding domain of the retinoblastoma protein	same
ARHGEF5	Rho GTPases play a fundamental role in numerous cellular processes initiated by extracellular stimuli that work through G protein coupled receptors. The encoded protein may form a complex with G proteins and stimulate Rho-dependent signals. This protein may be involved in the control of cytoskeletal organization. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARHGEF5 (Rho Guanine Nucleotide Exchange Factor (GEF) 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are RhoGDI Pathway and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding and Rho guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARHGEF19.	empty	same
ARID4B	This gene encodes a protein with sequence similarity to retinoblastoma-binding protein-1. The encoded protein is a subunit of the histone deacetylase-dependant SIN3A transcriptional corepressor complex, which functions in diverse cellular processes including proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis, oncogenesis, and cell fate determination. The gene product is recognized by IgG antibody isolated from a breast cancer patient and appears to be a molecular marker associated with a broad range of human malignancies. Alternate transcriptional splice variants encoding different isoforms have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARID4B (AT Rich Interactive Domain 4B (RBP1-Like)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARID4B include retinoblastoma and breast cancer. Among its related pathways are Development NOTCH1-mediated pathway for NF-KB activity modulation. An important paralog of this gene is ARID4A.	Acts as a transcriptional repressor. May function in the assembly and/or enzymatic activity of the Sin3A corepressor complex or in mediating interactions between the complex and other regulatory complexes.	same
ARID5A	Members of the ARID protein family, including ARID5A, have diverse functions but all appear to play important roles in development, tissue-specific gene expression, and regulation of cell growth (Patsialou et al., 2005 [PubMed 15640446]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	ARID5A (AT Rich Interactive Domain 5A (MRF1-Like)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARID5A include alcohol dependence. GO annotations related to this gene include chromatin binding and transcription factor binding. An important paralog of this gene is ARID4A.	Binds to AT-rich stretches in the modulator region upstream of the human cytomegalovirus major intermediate early gene enhancer. May act as repressor and down-regulate enhancer-dependent gene expressison.	same
ARHGEF11	Rho GTPases play a fundamental role in numerous cellular processes that are initiated by extracellular stimuli that work through G protein coupled receptors. The encoded protein may form a complex with G proteins and stimulate Rho-dependent signals. A similar protein in rat interacts with glutamate transporter EAAT4 and modulates its glutamate transport activity. Expression of the rat protein induces the reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton and its overexpression induces the formation of membrane ruffling and filopodia. Two alternative transcripts encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARHGEF11 (Rho Guanine Nucleotide Exchange Factor (GEF) 11) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and RhoGDI Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and Rho guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARHGEF2.	May play a role in the regulation of RhoA GTPase by guanine nucleotide-binding alpha-12 (GNA12) and alpha-13 (GNA13). Acts as guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) for RhoA GTPase and may act as GTPase-activating protein (GAP) for GNA12 and GNA13. Involved in neurotrophin-induced neurite outgrowth.	same
ARL10	empty	ARL10 (ADP-Ribosylation Factor-Like 10) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding. An important paralog of this gene is ARL1.	empty	same
ARL11	This gene encodes a tumor suppressor related to the ADP-ribosylation factor (ARF) family of proteins. The encoded protein may play a role in apoptosis in a caspase-dependent manner. Polymorphisms in this gene have been associated with some familial cancers. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	ARL11 (ADP-Ribosylation Factor-Like 11) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARL11 include familial colorectal cancer and dysplastic nevus syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding. An important paralog of this gene is ARL14.	May play a role in apoptosis. May act as a tumor suppressor.	same
ARID2	ARID2 is a subunit of the PBAF chromatin-remodeling complex (see BAF180; MIM 606083), which facilitates ligand-dependent transcriptional activation by nuclear receptors (Yan et al., 2005 [PubMed 15985610]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	ARID2 (AT Rich Interactive Domain 2 (ARID, RFX-Like)) is a Protein Coding gene.	Involved in transcriptional activation and repression of select genes by chromatin remodeling (alteration of DNA-nucleosome topology). Required for the stability of the SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling complex SWI/SNF-B (PBAF). May be involved in targeting the complex to different genes. May be involved in regulating transcriptional activation of cardiac genes.	same
ARID5B	This gene encodes a member of the AT-rich interaction domain (ARID) family of DNA binding proteins. The encoded protein forms a histone H3K9Me2 demethylase complex with PHD finger protein 2 and regulates the transcription of target genes involved in adipogenesis and liver development. This gene also plays a role in cell growth and differentiation of B-lymphocyte progenitors, and single nucleotide polymorphisms in this gene are associated with acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]	ARID5B (AT Rich Interactive Domain 5B (MRF1-Like)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARID5B include lymphoblastic leukemia. GO annotations related to this gene include transcription coactivator activity and transcription regulatory region DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is ARID4A.	Transcription coactivator that binds to the 5-AATA[CT]-3 core sequence and plays a key role in adipogenesis and liver development. Acts by forming a complex with phosphorylated PHF2, which mediates demethylation at Lys-336, leading to target the PHF2-ARID5B complex to target promoters, where PHF2 mediates demethylation of dimethylated Lys-9 of histone H3 (H3K9me2), followed by transcription activation of target genes. The PHF2-ARID5B complex acts as a coactivator of HNF4A in liver. Required for adipogenesis: regulates triglyceride metabolism in adipocytes by regulating expression of adipogenic genes. Overexpression leads to induction of smooth muscle marker genes, suggesting that it may also act as a regulator of smooth muscle cell differentiation and proliferation. Represses the cytomegalovirus enhancer.	same
ARL16	empty	ARL16 (ADP-Ribosylation Factor-Like 16) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding.	empty	same
ARL14	empty	ARL14 (ADP-Ribosylation Factor-Like 14) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARL14 include primary biliary cirrhosis. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding. An important paralog of this gene is ARL11.	GTPase that recruits MYO1E to MHC class II-containing vesicles via the effector protein ARL14EP and hence controls the movement of these vesicles along the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic cells.	same
ARIH2	empty	ARIH2 (Ariadne RBR E3 Ubiquitin Protein Ligase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin-protein transferase activity and nucleic acid binding. An important paralog of this gene is RNF19A.	E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase mediating Lys-48-and Lys-63-linked polyubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of modified proteins. May play a role in myelopoiesis.	same
ARID1B	This locus encodes an AT-rich DNA interacting domain-containing protein. The encoded protein is a component of the SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling complex and may play a role in cell-cycle activation. The protein encoded by this locus is similar to AT-rich interactive domain-containing protein 1A. These two proteins function as alternative, mutually exclusive ARID-subunits of the SWI/SNF complex. The associated complexes play opposing roles. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]	ARID1B (AT Rich Interactive Domain 1B (SWI1-Like)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARID1B include mental retardation, autosomal dominant 12 and chromosome 6q25 microdeletion syndrome. Among its related pathways are Transcription Ligand-dependent activation of the ESR1/SP pathway and Prostate Cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include transcription coactivator activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARID3B.	Involved in transcriptional activation and repression of select genes by chromatin remodeling (alteration of DNA-nucleosome topology). Belongs to the neural progenitors-specific chromatin remodeling complex (npBAF complex) and the neuron-specific chromatin remodeling complex (nBAF complex). During neural development a switch from a stem/progenitor to a post-mitotic chromatin remodeling mechanism occurs as neurons exit the cell cycle and become committed to their adult state. The transition from proliferating neural stem/progenitor cells to post-mitotic neurons requires a switch in subunit composition of the npBAF and nBAF complexes. As neural progenitors exit mitosis and differentiate into neurons, npBAF complexes which contain ACTL6A/BAF53A and PHF10/BAF45A, are exchanged for homologous alternative ACTL6B/BAF53B and DPF1/BAF45B or DPF3/BAF45C subunits in neuron-specific complexes (nBAF). The npBAF complex is essential for the self-renewal/proliferative capacity of the multipotent neural stem cells. The nBAF complex along with CREST plays a role regulating the activity of genes essential for dendrite growth (By similarity). Binds DNA non-specifically.	same
ARL15	empty	ARL15 (ADP-Ribosylation Factor-Like 15) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding. An important paralog of this gene is ARL1.	empty	same
ARID3B	This gene encodes a member of the ARID (AT-rich interaction domain) family of DNA-binding proteins. The encoded protein is homologous with two proteins that bind to the retinoblastoma gene product, and also with the mouse Bright and Drosophila dead ringer proteins. A pseudogene on chromosome 1p31 exists for this gene. Members of the ARID family have roles in embryonic patterning, cell lineage gene regulation, cell cycle control, transcriptional regulation and possibly in chromatin structure modification. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARID3B (AT Rich Interactive Domain 3B (BRIGHT-Like)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARID3B include imperforate anus and intestinal atresia. An important paralog of this gene is ARID3A.	Transcription factor which may be involved in neuroblastoma growth and malignant transformation. Favors nuclear targeting of ARID3A.	same
ARL13A	empty	ARL13A (ADP-Ribosylation Factor-Like 13A) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding. An important paralog of this gene is ARL13B.	empty	same
ARL13B	This gene encodes a member of the ADP-ribosylation factor-like family. The encoded protein is a small GTPase that contains both N-terminal and C-terminal guanine nucleotide-binding motifs. This protein is localized in the cilia and plays a role in cilia formation and in maintenance of cilia. Mutations in this gene are the cause of Joubert syndrome 8. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]	ARL13B (ADP-Ribosylation Factor-Like 13B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARL13B include joubert syndrome 8 and arl13b-related joubert syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding. An important paralog of this gene is ARL13A.	Cilium-specific protein required to control the microtubule-based, ciliary axoneme structure. May act by maintaining the association between IFT subcomplexes A and B. Binds GTP but is not able to hydrolyze it; the GTPase activity remains unclear. Required to pattern the neural tube. Involved in cerebral cortex development: required for the initial formation of a polarized radial glial scaffold, the first step in the construction of the cerebral cortex, by regulating ciliary signaling. Regulates the migration and placement of postmitotic interneurons in the developing cerebral cortex. May regulate endocytic recycling traffic; however, additional evidences are required to confirm these data.	same
ARL17A	empty	ARL17A (ADP-Ribosylation Factor-Like 17A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARL17A include familial breast cancer and bardet-biedl syndrome. An important paralog of this gene is ARL17B.	GTP-binding protein that functions as an allosteric activator of the cholera toxin catalytic subunit, an ADP-ribosyltransferase. Involved in protein trafficking; may modulate vesicle budding and uncoating within the Golgi apparatus (By similarity).	same
ARIH1	empty	ARIH1 (Ariadne RBR E3 Ubiquitin Protein Ligase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Interferon Signaling and Interferon Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin-protein transferase activity and ubiquitin-like protein transferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is RNF19A.	E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase, which catalyzes polyubiquitination of target proteins together with ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2 UBE2L3. May play a role in protein translation by mediating polyubiquitination of EIF4E2, leading to its subsequent degradation. Acts as the ligase involved in ISGylation of EIF4E2.	same
ARL5B	ARL5B (ARL8) belongs to a family of proteins that are structurally similar to ADP-ribosylation factors (ARFs; see MIM 103180). ARLs and ARFs are part of the RAS superfamily of regulatory GTPases.[supplied by OMIM, Nov 2010]	ARL5B (ADP-Ribosylation Factor-Like 5B) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000272822.	Binds and exchanges GTP and GDP	same
ARL2BP	ADP-ribosylation factor (ARF)-like proteins (ARLs) comprise a functionally distinct group of the ARF family of RAS-related GTPases. The protein encoded by this gene binds to ARL2.GTP with high affinity but does not interact with ARL2.GDP, activated ARF, or RHO proteins. The lack of detectable membrane association of this protein or ARL2 upon activation of ARL2 is suggestive of actions distinct from those of the ARFs. This protein is considered to be the first ARL2-specific effector identified, due to its interaction with ARL2.GTP but lack of ARL2 GTPase-activating protein activity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARL2BP (ADP-Ribosylation Factor-Like 2 Binding Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARL2BP include retinitis pigmentosa with or without situs inversus and retinitis pigmentosa 66. GO annotations related to this gene include transcription coactivator activity.	Together with ARL2, plays a role in the nuclear translocation, retention and transcriptional activity of STAT3. May play a role as an effector of ARL2.	same
ARL5C	empty	ARL5C (ADP-Ribosylation Factor-Like 5C) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000272822.	Binds and exchanges GTP and GDP.	same
ARL17B	empty	ARL17B (ADP-Ribosylation Factor-Like 17B) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding. An important paralog of this gene is ARL17A.	GTP-binding protein that functions as an allosteric activator of the cholera toxin catalytic subunit, an ADP-ribosyltransferase. Involved in protein trafficking; may modulate vesicle budding and uncoating within the Golgi apparatus (By similarity).	same
ARL4C	ADP-ribosylation factor-like 4C is a member of the ADP-ribosylation factor family of GTP-binding proteins. ARL4C is closely similar to ARL4A and ARL4D and each has a nuclear localization signal and an unusually high guanine nucleotide exchange rate. This protein may play a role in cholesterol transport. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARL4C (ADP-Ribosylation Factor-Like 4C) is a Protein Coding gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding and alpha-tubulin binding. An important paralog of this gene is ARL11.	Small GTP-binding protein which cycles between an inactive GDP-bound and an active GTP-bound form, and the rate of cycling is regulated by guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEF) and GTPase-activating proteins (GAP). GTP-binding protein that does not act as an allosteric activator of the cholera toxin catalytic subunit. May be involved in transport between a perinuclear compartment and the plasma membrane, apparently linked to the ABCA1-mediated cholesterol secretion pathway. Recruits CYTH1, CYTH2, CYTH3 and CYTH4 to the plasma membrane in the GDP-bound form. Regulates the microtubule-dependent intracellular vesicular transport from early endosome to recycling endosome process.	same
ARID3C	This gene is a member of the ARID (AT-rich interaction domain) family of proteins. The ARID domain is a helix-turn-helix motif-based DNA-binding domain. ARID family members have roles in embryonic patterning, cell lineage gene regulation, cell cycle control, transcriptional regulation and possibly in chromatin structure modification. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARID3C (AT Rich Interactive Domain 3C (BRIGHT-Like)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include chromatin binding. An important paralog of this gene is ARID3B.	empty	same
ARL2	This gene encodes a small GTP-binding protein of the RAS superfamily which functions as an ADP-ribosylation factor (ARF). The encoded protein is one of a functionally distinct group of ARF-like genes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARL2 (ADP-Ribosylation Factor-Like 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARL2 include retinitis pigmentosa 2 and retinitis pigmentosa. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding and GDP binding. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000272822.	Small GTP-binding protein which cycles between an inactive GDP-bound and an active GTP-bound form, and the rate of cycling is regulated by guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEF) and GTPase-activating proteins (GAP). GTP-binding protein that does not act as an allosteric activator of the cholera toxin catalytic subunit. Regulates formation of new microtubules and centrosome integrity. Prevents the TBCD-induced microtubule destruction. Participates in association with TBCD, in the disassembly of the apical junction complexes. Antagonizes the effect of TBCD on epithelial cell detachment and tight and adherens junctions disassembly. Together with ARL2, plays a role in the nuclear translocation, retention and transcriptional activity of STAT3. Component of a regulated secretory pathway involved in Ca(2+)-dependent release of acetylcholine. Required for normal progress through the cell cycle.	same
ARL4A	ADP-ribosylation factor-like 4A is a member of the ADP-ribosylation factor family of GTP-binding proteins. ARL4A is similar to ARL4C and ARL4D and each has a nuclear localization signal and an unusually high guaninine nucleotide exchange rate. ARL4A is located in both the nuclear and extranuclear cell compartments. Multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARL4A (ADP-Ribosylation Factor-Like 4A) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding. An important paralog of this gene is ARL11.	Small GTP-binding protein which cycles between an inactive GDP-bound and an active GTP-bound form, and the rate of cycling is regulated by guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEF) and GTPase-activating proteins (GAP). GTP-binding protein that does not act as an allosteric activator of the cholera toxin catalytic subunit. Recruits CYTH1, CYTH2, CYTH3 and CYTH4 to the plasma membrane in GDP-bound form.	same
ARL6IP1	empty	ARL6IP1 (ADP-Ribosylation Factor-Like 6 Interacting Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARL6IP1 include spastic paraplegia 61, autosomal recessive. Among its related pathways are PAK Pathway and Phospholipase-C Pathway. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000260342.	May be involved in protein transport, membrane trafficking, or cell signaling during hematopoietic maturation	same
ARL3	ADP-ribosylation factor-like 3 is a member of the ADP-ribosylation factor family of GTP-binding proteins. ARL3 binds guanine nucleotides but lacks ADP-ribosylation factor activity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARL3 (ADP-Ribosylation Factor-Like 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARL3 include retinitis pigmentosa 2 and retinitis pigmentosa. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding and microtubule binding. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000272822.	Small GTP-binding protein which cycles between an inactive GDP-bound and an active GTP-bound form, and the rate of cycling is regulated by guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEF) and GTPase-activating proteins (GAP). Required for normal cytokinesis and cilia signaling. Requires assistance from GTPase-activating proteins (GAPs) like RP2 and PDE6D, in order to cycle between inactive GDP-bound and active GTP-bound forms. Required for targeting proteins such as NPHP3 to the ciliary membrane by releasing myristoylated NPHP3 from UNC119B cargo adapter into the cilium. Does not act as an allosteric activator of the cholera toxin catalytic subunit.	same
ARL6IP6	empty	ARL6IP6 (ADP-Ribosylation Factor-Like 6 Interacting Protein 6) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
ARL4D	ADP-ribosylation factor 4D is a member of the ADP-ribosylation factor family of GTP-binding proteins. ARL4D is closely similar to ARL4A and ARL4C and each has a nuclear localization signal and an unusually high guanine nucleotide exchange rate. This protein may play a role in membrane-associated intracellular trafficking. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARL4D (ADP-Ribosylation Factor-Like 4D) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARL4D include bardet-biedl syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding and GTPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARL11.	Small GTP-binding protein which cycles between an inactive GDP-bound and an active GTP-bound form, and the rate of cycling is regulated by guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEF) and GTPase-activating proteins (GAP). GTP-binding protein that does not act as an allosteric activator of the cholera toxin catalytic subunit. Recruits CYTH1, CYTH2, CYTH3 and CYTH4 to the plasma membrane in GDP-bound form.	same
ARL1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the ARL (ADP-ribosylation factor-like) family of proteins, which are structurally related to ADP-ribosylation factors (ARFs). ARFs, described as activators of cholera toxin (CT) ADP-ribosyltransferase activity, regulate intracellular vesicular membrane trafficking, and stimulate a phospholipase D (PLD) isoform. Although, ARL proteins were initially thought not to activate CT or PLD, later work showed that they are weak stimulators of PLD and CT in a phospholipid dependent manner. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]	ARL1 (ADP-Ribosylation Factor-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARL1 include cholera. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding and protein domain specific binding. An important paralog of this gene is ARL15.	GTP-binding protein that has very low efficiency as allosteric activator of the cholera toxin catalytic subunit, an ADP-ribosyltransferase. Can activate phospholipase D with very low efficiency. Important for normal function of the Golgi apparatus.	same
ARL5A	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the ARF family of GTP-binding proteins. With its distinctive nuclear/nucleolar localization and interaction with HP1alpha, the protein is developmentally regulated and may play a role(s) in nuclear dynamics and/or signaling cascades during embryonic development. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. This gene has multiple pseudogenes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARL5A (ADP-Ribosylation Factor-Like 5A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARL5A include prostate carcinoma in situ. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000272822.	Lacks ADP-ribosylation enhancing activity.	same
ARL6IP5	Expression of this gene is affected by vitamin A. The encoded protein of this gene may be associated with the cytoskeleton. A similar protein in rats may play a role in the regulation of cell differentiation. The rat protein binds and inhibits the cell membrane glutamate transporter EAAC1. The expression of the rat gene is upregulated by retinoic acid, which results in a specific reduction in EAAC1-mediated glutamate transport. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARL6IP5 (ADP-Ribosylation Factor-Like 6 Interacting Protein 5) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein C-terminus binding.	Regulates intracellular concentrations of taurine and glutamate. Negatively modulates SLC1A1/EAAC1 glutamate transport activity by decreasing its affinity for glutamate. May be involved in membrane traffic (By similarity).	same
ARL6	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the ARF-like (ADP ribosylation factor-like) sub-family of the ARF family of GTP-binding proteins which are involved in regulation of intracellular traffic. Mutations in this gene are associated with Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants of this gene. A vision-specific transcript encoding a different protein has been described (PMID: 20333246). [provided by RefSeq, May 2013]	ARL6 (ADP-Ribosylation Factor-Like 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARL6 include bardet-biedl syndrome 3 and retinitis pigmentosa 55. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding and phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is ARL1.	Involved in membrane protein trafficking at the base of the ciliary organelle. Mediates recruitment onto plasma membrane of the BBSome complex which would constitute a coat complex required for sorting of specific membrane proteins to the primary cilia (PubMed:20603001). Together with BBS1, is necessary for correct trafficking of PKD1 to primary cilia (By similarity). Together with the BBSome complex and LTZL1, controls SMO ciliary trafficking and contributes to the sonic hedgehog (SHH) pathway regulation (PubMed:22072986). May regulate cilia assembly and disassembly and subsequent ciliary signaling events such as the Wnt signaling cascade (PubMed:20207729). Isoform 2 may be required for proper retinal function and organization (By similarity).	same
ARL8A	empty	ARL8A (ADP-Ribosylation Factor-Like 8A) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding and beta-tubulin binding. An important paralog of this gene is ARL1.	May play a role in lysosomes motility. Alternatively, may play a role in chromosome segregation (By similarity).	same
ARL8B	empty	ARL8B (ADP-Ribosylation Factor-Like 8B) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding and GDP binding. An important paralog of this gene is ARL1.	May play a role in lysosome motility (PubMed:16537643). May play a role in chromosome segregation (PubMed:15331635).	same
ARL6IP4	empty	ARL6IP4 (ADP-Ribosylation Factor-Like 6 Interacting Protein 4) is a Protein Coding gene.	Involved in modulating alternative pre-mRNA splicing with either 5 distal site activation or preferential use of 3 proximal site. In case of infection by Herpes simplex virus (HSVI), may act as a splicing inhibitor of HSVI pre-mRNA.	same
ARMC2	empty	ARMC2 (Armadillo Repeat Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
ARL9	ARL9 is a member of the small GTPase protein family with a high degree of similarity to ARF (MIM 103180) proteins of the RAS superfamily.[supplied by OMIM, Nov 2008]	ARL9 (ADP-Ribosylation Factor-Like 9) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding. An important paralog of this gene is ARL1.	empty	same
ARMC3	Armadillo/beta-catenin (CTNNB1; MIM 116806)-like (ARM) domains are imperfect 45-amino acid repeats involved in protein-protein interactions. ARM domain-containing proteins, such as ARMC3, function in signal transduction, development, cell adhesion and mobility, and tumor initiation and metastasis (Li et al., 2006 [PubMed 16915934]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	ARMC3 (Armadillo Repeat Containing 3) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ARMC4.	empty	same
ARMC5	This gene encodes a member of the ARM (armadillo/beta-catenin-like repeat) superfamily. The ARM repeat is a tandemly repeated sequence motif with approximately 40 amino acid long. This repeat is implicated in mediating protein-protein interactions. The encoded protein contains seven ARM repeats. Mutations in this gene are associated with primary bilateral macronodular adrenal hyperplasia, which is also known as ACTH-independent macronodular adrenal hyperplasia 2. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	ARMC5 (Armadillo Repeat Containing 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARMC5 include acth-independent macronodular adrenal hyperplasia 2 and acth-independent macronodular adrenal hyperplasia.	empty	same
ARMC4	empty	ARMC4 (Armadillo Repeat Containing 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARMC4 include ciliary dyskinesia, primary, 23. An important paralog of this gene is ARMC3.	Ciliary protein that may be involved in a late step of axonemal outer dynein arm assembly.	same
ARMC6	The function of this gene's protein product has not been determined. A related protein in mouse suggests that this protein has a conserved function. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]	ARMC6 (Armadillo Repeat Containing 6) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
ARMC10	This gene encodes a protein that contains an armadillo repeat and transmembrane domain. The encoded protein decreases the transcriptional activity of the tumor suppressor protein p53 through direct interaction with the DNA-binding domain of p53, and may play a role in cell growth and survival. Upregulation of this gene may play a role in hepatocellular carcinoma. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene, and a pseudogene of this gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 3. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]	ARMC10 (Armadillo Repeat Containing 10) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARMC10 include cloacogenic carcinoma and hepatocellular carcinoma. An important paralog of this gene is ARMCX6.	May play a role in cell survival and cell growth. May suppress the transcriptional activity of p53/TP53.	same
ARMC8	empty	ARMC8 (Armadillo Repeat Containing 8) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
ARMCX5	empty	ARMCX5 (Armadillo Repeat Containing, X-Linked 5) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ARMCX6.	empty	same
ARMCX3	This gene encodes a member of the ALEX family of proteins which may play a role in tumor suppression. The encoded protein contains a potential N-terminal transmembrane domain and a single Armadillo (arm) repeat. Other proteins containing the arm repeat are involved in development, maintenance of tissue integrity, and tumorigenesis. This gene is closely localized with other family members on the X chromosome. Three transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARMCX3 (Armadillo Repeat Containing, X-Linked 3) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ARMCX6.	empty	same
ARMS2	This gene encodes a protein that is thought to play a role in diseases in the elderly. Mutations in this gene have been associated with age-related macular degeneration. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]	ARMS2 (Age-Related Maculopathy Susceptibility 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARMS2 include macular degeneration, age-related, 8 and retinal drusen.	empty	same
ARMC1	empty	ARMC1 (Armadillo Repeat Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
ARMCX1	This gene encodes a member of the ALEX family of proteins and may play a role in tumor suppression. The encoded protein contains a potential N-terminal transmembrane domain and two Armadillo (arm) repeats. Other proteins containing the arm repeat are involved in development, maintenance of tissue integrity, and tumorigenesis. This gene is closely localized with other family members, including ALEX2 and ALEX3, on the X chromosome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARMCX1 (Armadillo Repeat Containing, X-Linked 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ARMCX6.	empty	same
ARMCX6	empty	ARMCX6 (Armadillo Repeat Containing, X-Linked 6) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is BHLHB9.	empty	same
ARNTL2	This gene encodes a basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor belonging to the PAS (PER, ARNT, SIM) superfamily. The PAS proteins play important roles in adaptation to low atmospheric and cellular oxygen levels, exposure to certain environmental pollutants, and diurnal oscillations in light and temperature. This protein forms a transcriptionally active heterodimer with the circadian CLOCK protein, the structurally related MOP4, and hypoxia-inducible factors, such as HIF1alpha. Consistent with its role as a biologically relevant partner of circadian and hypoxia factors, this protein is coexpressed in regions of the brain such as the thalamus, hypothalamus, and amygdala. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]	ARNTL2 (Aryl Hydrocarbon Receptor Nuclear Translocator-Like 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARNTL2 include hypoxia. Among its related pathways are Circadian Clock and Circadian Clock. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and protein dimerization activity. An important paralog of this gene is AHRR.	Transcriptional activator which forms a core component of the circadian clock. The circadian clock, an internal time-keeping system, regulates various physiological processes through the generation of approximately 24 hour circadian rhythms in gene expression, which are translated into rhythms in metabolism and behavior. It is derived from the Latin roots circa (about) and diem (day) and acts as an important regulator of a wide array of physiological functions including metabolism, sleep, body temperature, blood pressure, endocrine, immune, cardiovascular, and renal function. Consists of two major components: the central clock, residing in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the brain, and the peripheral clocks that are present in nearly every tissue and organ system. Both the central and peripheral clocks can be reset by environmental cues, also known as Zeitgebers (German for timegivers). The predominant Zeitgeber for the central clock is light, which is sensed by retina and signals directly to the SCN. The central clock entrains the peripheral clocks through neuronal and hormonal signals, body temperature and feeding-related cues, aligning all clocks with the external light/dark cycle. Circadian rhythms allow an organism to achieve temporal homeostasis with its environment at the molecular level by regulating gene expression to create a peak of protein expression once every 24 hours to control when a particular physiological process is most active with respect to the solar day. Transcription and translation of core clock components (CLOCK, NPAS2, ARNTL/BMAL1, ARNTL2/BMAL2, PER1, PER2, PER3, CRY1 and CRY2) plays a critical role in rhythm generation, whereas delays imposed by post-translational modifications (PTMs) are important for determining the period (tau) of the rhythms (tau refers to the period of a rhythm and is the length, in time, of one complete cycle). A diurnal rhythm is synchronized with the day/night cycle, while the ultradian and infradian rhythms have a period shorter and longer than 24 hours, respectively. Disruptions in the circadian rhythms contribute to the pathology of cardiovascular diseases, cancer, metabolic syndromes and aging. A transcription/translation feedback loop (TTFL) forms the core of the molecular circadian clock mechanism. Transcription factors, CLOCK or NPAS2 and ARNTL/BMAL1 or ARNTL2/BMAL2, form the positive limb of the feedback loop, act in the form of a heterodimer and activate the transcription of core clock genes and clock-controlled genes (involved in key metabolic processes), harboring E-box elements (5-CACGTG-3) within their promoters. The core clock genes: PER1/2/3 and CRY1/2 which are transcriptional repressors form the negative limb of the feedback loop and interact with the CLOCK NPAS2-ARNTL/BMAL1 ARNTL2/BMAL2 heterodimer inhibiting its activity and thereby negatively regulating their own expression. This heterodimer also activates nuclear receptors NR1D1/2 and RORA/B/G, which form a second feedback loop and which activate and repress ARNTL/BMAL1 transcription, respectively. The CLOCK-ARNTL2/BMAL2 heterodimer activates the transcription of SERPINE1/PAI1 and BHLHE40/DEC1.	same
ARNT	This gene encodes a protein containing a basic helix-loop-helix domain and two characteristic PAS domains along with a PAC domain. The encoded protein binds to ligand-bound aryl hydrocarbon receptor and aids in the movement of this complex to the nucleus, where it promotes the expression of genes involved in xenobiotic metabolism. This protein is also a co-factor for transcriptional regulation by hypoxia-inducible factor 1. Chromosomal translocation of this locus with the ETV6 (ets variant 6) gene on chromosome 12 have been described in leukemias. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2013]	ARNT (Aryl Hydrocarbon Receptor Nuclear Translocator) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARNT include hypoxia. Among its related pathways are Pathways in cancer and Angiogenesis (CST). GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and protein heterodimerization activity. An important paralog of this gene is AHRR.	Required for activity of the Ah (dioxin) receptor. This protein is required for the ligand-binding subunit to translocate from the cytosol to the nucleus after ligand binding. The complex then initiates transcription of genes involved in the activation of PAH procarcinogens. The heterodimer with HIF1A or EPAS1/HIF2A functions as a transcriptional regulator of the adaptive response to hypoxia	same
ARNTL	The protein encoded by this gene is a basic helix-loop-helix protein that forms a heterodimer with CLOCK. This heterodimer binds E-box enhancer elements upstream of Period (PER1, PER2, PER3) and Cryptochrome (CRY1, CRY2) genes and activates transcription of these genes. PER and CRY proteins heterodimerize and repress their own transcription by interacting in a feedback loop with CLOCK/ARNTL complexes. Defects in this gene have been linked to infertility, problems with gluconeogenesis and lipogenesis, and altered sleep patterns. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]	ARNTL (Aryl Hydrocarbon Receptor Nuclear Translocator-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include protein heterodimerization activity and bHLH transcription factor binding. An important paralog of this gene is AHRR.	Transcriptional activator which forms a core component of the circadian clock. The circadian clock, an internal time-keeping system, regulates various physiological processes through the generation of approximately 24 hour circadian rhythms in gene expression, which are translated into rhythms in metabolism and behavior. It is derived from the Latin roots circa (about) and diem (day) and acts as an important regulator of a wide array of physiological functions including metabolism, sleep, body temperature, blood pressure, endocrine, immune, cardiovascular, and renal function. Consists of two major components: the central clock, residing in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the brain, and the peripheral clocks that are present in nearly every tissue and organ system. Both the central and peripheral clocks can be reset by environmental cues, also known as Zeitgebers (German for timegivers). The predominant Zeitgeber for the central clock is light, which is sensed by retina and signals directly to the SCN. The central clock entrains the peripheral clocks through neuronal and hormonal signals, body temperature and feeding-related cues, aligning all clocks with the external light/dark cycle. Circadian rhythms allow an organism to achieve temporal homeostasis with its environment at the molecular level by regulating gene expression to create a peak of protein expression once every 24 hours to control when a particular physiological process is most active with respect to the solar day. Transcription and translation of core clock components (CLOCK, NPAS2, ARNTL/BMAL1, ARNTL2/BMAL2, PER1, PER2, PER3, CRY1 and CRY2) plays a critical role in rhythm generation, whereas delays imposed by post-translational modifications (PTMs) are important for determining the period (tau) of the rhythms (tau refers to the period of a rhythm and is the length, in time, of one complete cycle). A diurnal rhythm is synchronized with the day/night cycle, while the ultradian and infradian rhythms have a period shorter and longer than 24 hours, respectively. Disruptions in the circadian rhythms contribute to the pathology of cardiovascular diseases, cancer, metabolic syndromes and aging. A transcription/translation feedback loop (TTFL) forms the core of the molecular circadian clock mechanism. Transcription factors, CLOCK or NPAS2 and ARNTL/BMAL1 or ARNTL2/BMAL2, form the positive limb of the feedback loop, act in the form of a heterodimer and activate the transcription of core clock genes and clock-controlled genes (involved in key metabolic processes), harboring E-box elements (5-CACGTG-3) within their promoters. The core clock genes: PER1/2/3 and CRY1/2 which are transcriptional repressors form the negative limb of the feedback loop and interact with the CLOCK NPAS2-ARNTL/BMAL1 ARNTL2/BMAL2 heterodimer inhibiting its activity and thereby negatively regulating their own expression. This heterodimer also activates nuclear receptors NR1D1/2 and RORA/B/G, which form a second feedback loop and which activate and repress ARNTL/BMAL1 transcription, respectively. ARNTL/BMAL1 positively regulates myogenesis and negatively regulates adipogenesis via the transcriptional control of the genes of the canonical Wnt signaling pathway. Plays a role in normal pancreatic beta-cell function; regulates glucose-stimulated insulin secretion via the regulation of antioxidant genes NFE2L2/NRF2 and its targets SESN2, PRDX3, CCLC and CCLM. Negatively regulates the mTORC1 signaling pathway; regulates the expression of MTOR and DEPTOR. Controls diurnal oscillations of Ly6C inflammatory monocytes; rhythmic recruitment of the PRC2 complex imparts diurnal variation to chemokine expression that is necessary to sustain Ly6C monocyte rhythms. Regulates the expression of HSD3B2, STAR, PTGS2, CYP11A1, CYP19A1 and LHCGR in the ovary and also the genes involved in hair growth. Plays an important role in adult hippocampal neurogenesis by regulating the timely entry of neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs) into the cell cycle and the number of cell divisions that take place prior to cell-cycle exit. Regulates the circadian expression of CIART and KLF11. The CLOCK-ARNTL/BMAL1 heterodimer regulates the circadian expression of SERPINE1/PAI1, VWF, B3, CCRN4L/NOC, NAMPT, DBP, MYOD1, PPARGC1A, PPARGC1B, SIRT1, GYS2, F7, NGFR, GNRHR, BHLHE40/DEC1, ATF4, MTA1, KLF10 and also genes implicated in glucose and lipid metabolism. Represses glucocorticoid receptor NR3C1/GR-induced transcriptional activity by reducing the association of NR3C1/GR to glucocorticoid response elements (GREs) via the acetylation of multiple lysine residues located in its hinge region. Promotes rhythmic chromatin opening, regulating the DNA accessibility of other transcription factors. The NPAS2-ARNTL/BMAL1 heterodimer positively regulates the expression of MAOA, F7 and LDHA and modulates the circadian rhythm of daytime contrast sensitivity by regulating the rhythmic expression of adenylate cyclase type 1 (ADCY1) in the retina.	same
ARPC1A	This gene encodes one of seven subunits of the human Arp2/3 protein complex. This subunit is a member of the SOP2 family of proteins and is most similar to the protein encoded by gene ARPC1B. The similarity between these two proteins suggests that they both may function as p41 subunit of the human Arp2/3 complex that has been implicated in the control of actin polymerization in cells. It is possible that the p41 subunit is involved in assembling and maintaining the structure of the Arp2/3 complex. Multiple versions of the p41 subunit may adapt the functions of the complex to different cell types or developmental stages. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]	ARPC1A (Actin Related Protein 2/3 Complex, Subunit 1A, 41kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Regulation of actin cytoskeleton and Immune response CCR3 signaling in eosinophils. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding. An important paralog of this gene is ARPC1B.	Probably functions as component of the Arp2/3 complex which is involved in regulation of actin polymerization and together with an activating nucleation-promoting factor (NPF) mediates the formation of branched actin networks	same
ARMCX2	This gene encodes a protein containing a potential N-terminal transmembrane domain and multiple armadillo (arm) repeats. Proteins containing arm repeats are involved in development, maintenance of tissue integrity, and tumorigenesis. This gene is located in a cluster of related genes on chromosome X. There is a pseudogene for this gene on chromosome 7. Alternative splicing in the 5' UTR results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2013]	ARMCX2 (Armadillo Repeat Containing, X-Linked 2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ARMCX6.	empty	same
ARPC1B	This gene encodes one of seven subunits of the human Arp2/3 protein complex. This subunit is a member of the SOP2 family of proteins and is most similar to the protein encoded by gene ARPC1A. The similarity between these two proteins suggests that they both may function as p41 subunit of the human Arp2/3 complex that has been implicated in the control of actin polymerization in cells. It is possible that the p41 subunit is involved in assembling and maintaining the structure of the Arp2/3 complex. Multiple versions of the p41 subunit may adapt the functions of the complex to different cell types or developmental stages. This protein also has a role in centrosomal homeostasis by being an activator and substrate of the Aurora A kinase. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]	ARPC1B (Actin Related Protein 2/3 Complex, Subunit 1B, 41kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Regulation of actin cytoskeleton and Immune response CCR3 signaling in eosinophils. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding and structural constituent of cytoskeleton. An important paralog of this gene is ARPC1A.	Functions as component of the Arp2/3 complex which is involved in regulation of actin polymerization and together with an activating nucleation-promoting factor (NPF) mediates the formation of branched actin networks	same
ARNT2	This gene encodes a member of the basic-helix-loop-helix-Per-Arnt-Sim (bHLH-PAS) superfamily of transcription factors. The encoded protein acts as a partner for several sensor proteins of the bHLH-PAS family, forming heterodimers with the sensor proteins that bind regulatory DNA sequences in genes responsive to developmental and environmental stimuli. Under hypoxic conditions, the encoded protein complexes with hypoxia-inducible factor 1alpha in the nucleus and this complex binds to hypoxia-responsive elements in enhancers and promoters of oxygen-responsive genes. A highly similar protein in mouse forms functional complexes with both aryl hydrocarbon receptors and Single-minded proteins, suggesting additional roles for the encoded protein in the metabolism of xenobiotic compounds and the regulation of neurogenesis, respectively. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2013]	ARNT2 (Aryl-Hydrocarbon Receptor Nuclear Translocator 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARNT2 include webb-dattani syndrome and hypothalamic insufficiency-secondary microcephaly-visual impairment-urinary anomalies. Among its related pathways are Pathways in cancer and Development HGF signaling pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and signal transducer activity. An important paralog of this gene is AHRR.	Transcription factor that plays a role in the development of the hypothalamo-pituitary axis, postnatal brain growth, and visual and renal function (PubMed:24022475). Specifically recognizes the xenobiotic response element (XRE).	same
ARPC2	This gene encodes one of seven subunits of the human Arp2/3 protein complex. The Arp2/3 protein complex has been implicated in the control of actin polymerization in cells and has been conserved through evolution. The exact role of the protein encoded by this gene, the p34 subunit, has yet to be determined. Two alternatively spliced variants have been characterized to date. Additional alternatively spliced variants have been described but their full length nature has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARPC2 (Actin Related Protein 2/3 Complex, Subunit 2, 34kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Regulation of actin cytoskeleton and Immune response CCR3 signaling in eosinophils. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding and kinesin binding.	Functions as actin-binding component of the Arp2/3 complex which is involved in regulation of actin polymerization and together with an activating nucleation-promoting factor (NPF) mediates the formation of branched actin networks. Seems to contact the mother actin filament	same
ARPC4	This gene encodes one of seven subunits of the human Arp2/3 protein complex. This complex controls actin polymerization in cells and has been conserved throughout eukaryotic evolution. This gene encodes the p20 subunit, which is necessary for actin nucleation and high-affinity binding to F-actin. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Naturally occurring read-through transcription exists between this gene and the downstream tubulin tyrosine ligase-like family, member 3 (TTLL3), which results in the production of a fusion protein. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]	ARPC4 (Actin Related Protein 2/3 Complex, Subunit 4, 20kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Regulation of actin cytoskeleton and Immune response CCR3 signaling in eosinophils. GO annotations related to this gene include actin filament binding and protein binding, bridging.	Functions as actin-binding component of the Arp2/3 complex which is involved in regulation of actin polymerization and together with an activating nucleation-promoting factor (NPF) mediates the formation of branched actin networks. Seems to contact the mother actin filament	same
ARMC7	empty	ARMC7 (Armadillo Repeat Containing 7) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
ARPC5	This gene encodes one of seven subunits of the human Arp2/3 protein complex. The Arp2/3 protein complex has been implicated in the control of actin polymerization in cells and has been conserved through evolution. The exact role of the protein encoded by this gene, the p16 subunit, has yet to be determined. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]	ARPC5 (Actin Related Protein 2/3 Complex, Subunit 5, 16kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Regulation of actin cytoskeleton and Regulation of actin cytoskeleton. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding and structural constituent of cytoskeleton. An important paralog of this gene is ARPC5L.	Functions as component of the Arp2/3 complex which is involved in regulation of actin polymerization and together with an activating nucleation-promoting factor (NPF) mediates the formation of branched actin networks	same
ARPC3	This gene encodes one of seven subunits of the human Arp2/3 protein complex. The Arp2/3 protein complex has been conserved through evolution and is implicated in the control of actin polymerization in cells. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2013]	ARPC3 (Actin Related Protein 2/3 Complex, Subunit 3, 21kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Regulation of actin cytoskeleton and Immune response CCR3 signaling in eosinophils. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding and structural constituent of cytoskeleton.	Functions as component of the Arp2/3 complex which is involved in regulation of actin polymerization and together with an activating nucleation-promoting factor (NPF) mediates the formation of branched actin networks	same
ARPP19	The 19-kD cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein plays a role in regulating mitosis by inhibiting protein phosphatase-2A (PP2A; see MIM 176915) (summary by Gharbi-Ayachi et al., 2010 [PubMed 21164014]).[supplied by OMIM, Feb 2011]	ARPP19 (CAMP-Regulated Phosphoprotein, 19kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and potassium channel regulator activity. An important paralog of this gene is ENSA.	Protein phosphatase inhibitor that specifically inhibits protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) during mitosis. When phosphorylated at Ser-62 during mitosis, specifically interacts with PPP2R2D (PR55-delta) and inhibits its activity, leading to inactivation of PP2A, an essential condition to keep cyclin-B1-CDK1 activity high during M phase. May indirectly enhance GAP-43 expression.	same
ARPC5L	empty	ARPC5L (Actin Related Protein 2/3 Complex, Subunit 5-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARPC5L include shigellosis. Among its related pathways are Regulation of actin cytoskeleton and Salmonella infection (KEGG). GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding. An important paralog of this gene is ARPC5.	May function as component of the Arp2/3 complex which is involved in regulation of actin polymerization and together with an activating nucleation-promoting factor (NPF) mediates the formation of branched actin networks	same
ARRDC4	empty	ARRDC4 (Arrestin Domain Containing 4) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ARRDC3.	empty	same
ARRDC3	empty	ARRDC3 (Arrestin Domain Containing 3) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include beta-3 adrenergic receptor binding. An important paralog of this gene is ARRDC1.	empty	same
ARSA	The protein encoded by this gene hydrolyzes cerebroside sulfate to cerebroside and sulfate. Defects in this gene lead to metachromatic leucodystrophy (MLD), a progressive demyelination disease which results in a variety of neurological symptoms and ultimately death. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]	ARSA (Arylsulfatase A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARSA include metachromatic leukodystrophy and metachromatic leukodystrophy, adult form. Among its related pathways are PTM- gamma carboxylation, hypusine formation and arylsulfatase activation and PTM- gamma carboxylation, hypusine formation and arylsulfatase activation. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and sulfuric ester hydrolase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARSJ.	Hydrolyzes cerebroside sulfate	same
ARSE	Arylsulfatase E is a member of the sulfatase family. It is glycosylated postranslationally and localized to the golgi apparatus. Sulfatases are essential for the correct composition of bone and cartilage matrix. X-linked chondrodysplasia punctata, a disease characterized by abnormalities in cartilage and bone development, has been linked to mutations in this gene. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A pseudogene related to this gene is located on the Y chromosome. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2013]	ARSE (Arylsulfatase E (Chondrodysplasia Punctata 1)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARSE include chondrodysplasia punctata, x-linked recessive and chondrodysplasia punctata 1, x-linked. Among its related pathways are PTM- gamma carboxylation, hypusine formation and arylsulfatase activation and PTM- gamma carboxylation, hypusine formation and arylsulfatase activation. GO annotations related to this gene include arylsulfatase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARSJ.	May be essential for the correct composition of cartilage and bone matrix during development. Has no activity toward steroid sulfates	same
ARSF	This gene is a member of the sulfatase family, and more specifically, the arylsulfatase subfamily. Members of the subfamily share similarity in sequence and splice sites, and are clustered together on chromosome X, suggesting that they are derived from recent gene duplication events. Sulfatases are essential for the correct composition of bone and cartilage matrix. The activity of this protein, unlike that of arylsulfatase E, is not inhibited by warfarin. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]	ARSF (Arylsulfatase F) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are PTM- gamma carboxylation, hypusine formation and arylsulfatase activation and PTM- gamma carboxylation, hypusine formation and arylsulfatase activation. GO annotations related to this gene include arylsulfatase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARSJ.	empty	same
ARSG	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the sulfatase enzyme family. Sulfatases hydrolyze sulfate esters from sulfated steroids, carbohydrates, proteoglycans, and glycolipids. They are involved in hormone biosynthesis, modulation of cell signaling, and degradation of macromolecules. This protein displays arylsulfatase activity at acidic pH, as is typical of lysosomal sulfatases, and has been shown to localize in the lysosomes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]	ARSG (Arylsulfatase G) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are PTM- gamma carboxylation, hypusine formation and arylsulfatase activation and PTM- gamma carboxylation, hypusine formation and arylsulfatase activation. GO annotations related to this gene include arylsulfatase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARSJ.	Displays arylsulfatase activity at acidic pH with pseudosubstrates, such as p-nitrocatechol sulfate and also, but with lower activity, p-nitrophenyl sulfate and 4-methylumbelliferyl sulfate.	same
ARRDC5	empty	ARRDC5 (Arrestin Domain Containing 5) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
ARPM1	empty	ACTRT3 (Actin-Related Protein T3) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ACTB.	empty	diff
ARR3	empty	ARR3 (Arrestin 3, Retinal (X-Arrestin)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARR3 include retinal vasculitis and rheumatic disease. Among its related pathways are CXCR4-mediated signaling events and Thromboxane A2 receptor signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include phosphoprotein binding and opsin binding. An important paralog of this gene is ARRB2.	May play a role in an as yet undefined retina-specific signal transduction. Could binds to photoactivated-phosphorylated red/green opsins	same
ARSJ	Sulfatases (EC 3.1.5.6), such as ARSJ, hydrolyze sulfate esters from sulfated steroids, carbohydrates, proteoglycans, and glycolipids. They are involved in hormone biosynthesis, modulation of cell signaling, and degradation of macromolecules (Sardiello et al., 2005 [PubMed 16174644]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	ARSJ (Arylsulfatase Family, Member J) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are PTM- gamma carboxylation, hypusine formation and arylsulfatase activation and PTM- gamma carboxylation, hypusine formation and arylsulfatase activation. GO annotations related to this gene include arylsulfatase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARSA.	empty	same
ARRDC2	empty	ARRDC2 (Arrestin Domain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ARRDC3.	empty	same
ART1	ADP-ribosyltransferase catalyzes the ADP-ribosylation of arginine residues in proteins. Mono-ADP-ribosylation is a posttranslational modification of proteins that is interfered with by a variety of bacterial toxins including cholera, pertussis, and heat-labile enterotoxins of E. coli. The amino acid sequence consists of predominantly hydrophobic N- and C-terminal regions, which is characteristic of glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored proteins. This gene was previously designated ART2. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ART1 (ADP-Ribosyltransferase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ART1 include pertussis and cholera. Among its related pathways are Nicotinate and nicotinamide metabolism and Defensins. GO annotations related to this gene include NAD+ ADP-ribosyltransferase activity and NAD(P)+-protein-arginine ADP-ribosyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ART4.	Has ADP-ribosyltransferase activity toward GLP1R.	same
ARSI	Sulfatases (EC 3.1.5.6), such as ARSI, hydrolyze sulfate esters from sulfated steroids, carbohydrates, proteoglycans, and glycolipids. They are involved in hormone biosynthesis, modulation of cell signaling, and degradation of macromolecules (Sardiello et al., 2005 [PubMed 16174644]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	ARSI (Arylsulfatase Family, Member I) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARSI include autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia type 66 and xerophthalmia. Among its related pathways are PTM- gamma carboxylation, hypusine formation and arylsulfatase activation and PTM- gamma carboxylation, hypusine formation and arylsulfatase activation. GO annotations related to this gene include arylsulfatase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARSJ.	Displays arylsulfatase activity at neutral pH, when co-expressed with SUMF1; arylsulfatase activity is measured in the secretion medium of retinal cell line, but no activity is recorded when measured in cell extracts.	same
ARRB1	Members of arrestin/beta-arrestin protein family are thought to participate in agonist-mediated desensitization of G-protein-coupled receptors and cause specific dampening of cellular responses to stimuli such as hormones, neurotransmitters, or sensory signals. Arrestin beta 1 is a cytosolic protein and acts as a cofactor in the beta-adrenergic receptor kinase (BARK) mediated desensitization of beta-adrenergic receptors. Besides the central nervous system, it is expressed at high levels in peripheral blood leukocytes, and thus the BARK/beta-arrestin system is believed to play a major role in regulating receptor-mediated immune functions. Alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different isoforms of arrestin beta 1 have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]	ARRB1 (Arrestin, Beta 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARRB1 include whim syndrome. Among its related pathways are MAPK signaling pathway and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include transcription factor binding and ubiquitin protein ligase binding. An important paralog of this gene is ARRB2.	Functions in regulating agonist-mediated G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling by mediating both receptor desensitization and resensitization processes. During homologous desensitization, beta-arrestins bind to the GPRK-phosphorylated receptor and sterically preclude its coupling to the cognate G-protein; the binding appears to require additional receptor determinants exposed only in the active receptor conformation. The beta-arrestins target many receptors for internalization by acting as endocytic adapters (CLASPs, clathrin-associated sorting proteins) and recruiting the GPRCs to the adapter protein 2 complex 2 (AP-2) in clathrin-coated pits (CCPs). However, the extent of beta-arrestin involvement appears to vary significantly depending on the receptor, agonist and cell type. Internalized arrestin-receptor complexes traffic to intracellular endosomes, where they remain uncoupled from G-proteins. Two different modes of arrestin-mediated internalization occur. Class A receptors, like ADRB2, OPRM1, ENDRA, D1AR and ADRA1B dissociate from beta-arrestin at or near the plasma membrane and undergo rapid recycling. Class B receptors, like AVPR2, AGTR1, NTSR1, TRHR and TACR1 internalize as a complex with arrestin and traffic with it to endosomal vesicles, presumably as desensitized receptors, for extended periods of time. Receptor resensitization then requires that receptor-bound arrestin is removed so that the receptor can be dephosphorylated and returned to the plasma membrane. Involved in internalization of P2RY4 and UTP-stimulated internalization of P2RY2. Involved in phosphorylation-dependent internalization of OPRD1 ands subsequent recycling. Involved in the degradation of cAMP by recruiting cAMP phosphodiesterases to ligand-activated receptors. Beta-arrestins function as multivalent adapter proteins that can switch the GPCR from a G-protein signaling mode that transmits short-lived signals from the plasma membrane via small molecule second messengers and ion channels to a beta-arrestin signaling mode that transmits a distinct set of signals that are initiated as the receptor internalizes and transits the intracellular compartment. Acts as signaling scaffold for MAPK pathways such as MAPK1/3 (ERK1/2). ERK1/2 activated by the beta-arrestin scaffold is largely excluded from the nucleus and confined to cytoplasmic locations such as endocytic vesicles, also called beta-arrestin signalosomes. Recruits c-Src/SRC to ADRB2 resulting in ERK activation. GPCRs for which the beta-arrestin-mediated signaling relies on both ARRB1 and ARRB2 (codependent regulation) include ADRB2, F2RL1 and PTH1R. For some GPCRs the beta-arrestin-mediated signaling relies on either ARRB1 or ARRB2 and is inhibited by the other respective beta-arrestin form (reciprocal regulation). Inhibits ERK1/2 signaling in AGTR1- and AVPR2-mediated activation (reciprocal regulation). Is required for SP-stimulated endocytosis of NK1R and recruits c-Src/SRC to internalized NK1R resulting in ERK1/2 activation, which is required for the antiapoptotic effects of SP. Is involved in proteinase-activated F2RL1-mediated ERK activity. Acts as signaling scaffold for the AKT1 pathway. Is involved in alpha-thrombin-stimulated AKT1 signaling. Is involved in IGF1-stimulated AKT1 signaling leading to increased protection from apoptosis. Involved in activation of the p38 MAPK signaling pathway and in actin bundle formation. Involved in F2RL1-mediated cytoskeletal rearrangement and chemotaxis. Involved in AGTR1-mediated stress fiber formation by acting together with GNAQ to activate RHOA. Appears to function as signaling scaffold involved in regulation of MIP-1-beta-stimulated CCR5-dependent chemotaxis. Involved in attenuation of NF-kappa-B-dependent transcription in response to GPCR or cytokine stimulation by interacting with and stabilizing CHUK. May serve as nuclear messenger for GPCRs. Involved in OPRD1-stimulated transcriptional regulation by translocating to CDKN1B and FOS promoter regions and recruiting EP300 resulting in acetylation of histone H4. Involved in regulation of LEF1 transcriptional activity via interaction with DVL1 and/or DVL2 Also involved in regulation of receptors other than GPCRs. Involved in Toll-like receptor and IL-1 receptor signaling through the interaction with TRAF6 which prevents TRAF6 autoubiquitination and oligomerization required for activation of NF-kappa-B and JUN. Binds phosphoinositides. Binds inositolhexakisphosphate (InsP6) (By similarity). Involved in IL8-mediated granule release in neutrophils. Required for atypical chemokine receptor ACKR2-induced RAC1-LIMK1-PAK1-dependent phosphorylation of cofilin (CFL1) and for the up-regulation of ACKR2 from endosomal compartment to cell membrane, increasing its efficiency in chemokine uptake and degradation. Involved in the internalization of the atypical chemokine receptor ACKR3.	same
ARSK	Sulfatases (EC 3.1.5.6), such as ARSK, hydrolyze sulfate esters from sulfated steroids, carbohydrates, proteoglycans, and glycolipids. They are involved in hormone biosynthesis, modulation of cell signaling, and degradation of macromolecules (Sardiello et al., 2005 [PubMed 16174644]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	ARSK (Arylsulfatase Family, Member K) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are PTM- gamma carboxylation, hypusine formation and arylsulfatase activation and PTM- gamma carboxylation, hypusine formation and arylsulfatase activation. GO annotations related to this gene include arylsulfatase activity. An important paralog of this gene is IDS.	empty	same
ARRDC1	empty	ARRDC1 (Arrestin Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ARRDC3.	empty	same
ARRB2	Members of arrestin/beta-arrestin protein family are thought to participate in agonist-mediated desensitization of G-protein-coupled receptors and cause specific dampening of cellular responses to stimuli such as hormones, neurotransmitters, or sensory signals. Arrestin beta 2, like arrestin beta 1, was shown to inhibit beta-adrenergic receptor function in vitro. It is expressed at high levels in the central nervous system and may play a role in the regulation of synaptic receptors. Besides the brain, a cDNA for arrestin beta 2 was isolated from thyroid gland, and thus it may also be involved in hormone-specific desensitization of TSH receptors. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]	ARRB2 (Arrestin, Beta 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARRB2 include whim syndrome. Among its related pathways are MAPK signaling pathway and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and ubiquitin protein ligase binding. An important paralog of this gene is ARR3.	Functions in regulating agonist-mediated G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling by mediating both receptor desensitization and resensitization processes. During homologous desensitization, beta-arrestins bind to the GPRK-phosphorylated receptor and sterically preclude its coupling to the cognate G-protein; the binding appears to require additional receptor determinants exposed only in the active receptor conformation. The beta-arrestins target many receptors for internalization by acting as endocytic adapters (CLASPs, clathrin-associated sorting proteins) and recruiting the GPRCs to the adapter protein 2 complex 2 (AP-2) in clathrin-coated pits (CCPs). However, the extent of beta-arrestin involvement appears to vary significantly depending on the receptor, agonist and cell type. Internalized arrestin-receptor complexes traffic to intracellular endosomes, where they remain uncoupled from G-proteins. Two different modes of arrestin-mediated internalization occur. Class A receptors, like ADRB2, OPRM1, ENDRA, D1AR and ADRA1B dissociate from beta-arrestin at or near the plasma membrane and undergo rapid recycling. Class B receptors, like AVPR2, AGTR1, NTSR1, TRHR and TACR1 internalize as a complex with arrestin and traffic with it to endosomal vesicles, presumably as desensitized receptors, for extended periods of time. Receptor resensitization then requires that receptor-bound arrestin is removed so that the receptor can be dephosphorylated and returned to the plasma membrane. Mediates endocytosis of CCR7 following ligation of CCL19 but not CCL21. Involved in internalization of P2RY1, P2RY4, P2RY6 and P2RY11 and ATP-stimulated internalization of P2RY2. Involved in phosphorylation-dependent internalization of OPRD1 and subsequent recycling or degradation. Involved in ubiquitination of IGF1R. Beta-arrestins function as multivalent adapter proteins that can switch the GPCR from a G-protein signaling mode that transmits short-lived signals from the plasma membrane via small molecule second messengers and ion channels to a beta-arrestin signaling mode that transmits a distinct set of signals that are initiated as the receptor internalizes and transits the intracellular compartment. Acts as signaling scaffold for MAPK pathways such as MAPK1/3 (ERK1/2) and MAPK10 (JNK3). ERK1/2 and JNK3 activated by the beta-arrestin scaffold are largely excluded from the nucleus and confined to cytoplasmic locations such as endocytic vesicles, also called beta-arrestin signalosomes. Acts as signaling scaffold for the AKT1 pathway. GPCRs for which the beta-arrestin-mediated signaling relies on both ARRB1 and ARRB2 (codependent regulation) include ADRB2, F2RL1 and PTH1R. For some GPCRs the beta-arrestin-mediated signaling relies on either ARRB1 or ARRB2 and is inhibited by the other respective beta-arrestin form (reciprocal regulation). Increases ERK1/2 signaling in AGTR1- and AVPR2-mediated activation (reciprocal regulation). Involved in CCR7-mediated ERK1/2 signaling involving ligand CCL19. Is involved in type-1A angiotensin II receptor/AGTR1-mediated ERK activity. Is involved in type-1A angiotensin II receptor/AGTR1-mediated MAPK10 activity. Is involved in dopamine-stimulated AKT1 activity in the striatum by disrupting the association of AKT1 with its negative regulator PP2A. Involved in AGTR1-mediated chemotaxis. Appears to function as signaling scaffold involved in regulation of MIP-1-beta-stimulated CCR5-dependent chemotaxis. Involved in attenuation of NF-kappa-B-dependent transcription in response to GPCR or cytokine stimulation by interacting with and stabilizing CHUK. Suppresses UV-induced NF-kappa-B-dependent activation by interacting with CHUK. The function is promoted by stimulation of ADRB2 and dephosphorylation of ARRB2. Involved in p53/TP53-mediated apoptosis by regulating MDM2 and reducing the MDM2-mediated degradation of p53/TP53. May serve as nuclear messenger for GPCRs. Upon stimulation of OR1D2, may be involved in regulation of gene expression during the early processes of fertilization. Also involved in regulation of receptors other than GPCRs. Involved in endocytosis of TGFBR2 and TGFBR3 and down-regulates TGF-beta signaling such as NF-kappa-B activation. Involved in endocytosis of low-density lipoprotein receptor/LDLR. Involved in endocytosis of smoothened homolog/Smo, which also requires ADRBK1. Involved in endocytosis of SLC9A5. Involved in endocytosis of ENG and subsequent TGF-beta-mediated ERK activation and migration of epithelial cells. Involved in Toll-like receptor and IL-1 receptor signaling through the interaction with TRAF6 which prevents TRAF6 autoubiquitination and oligomerization required for activation of NF-kappa-B and JUN. Involved in insulin resistance by acting as insulin-induced signaling scaffold for SRC, AKT1 and INSR. Involved in regulation of inhibitory signaling of natural killer cells by recruiting PTPN6 and PTPN11 to KIR2DL1. Involved in IL8-mediated granule release in neutrophils. Involved in the internalization of the atypical chemokine receptor ACKR3.	same
ARSB	Arylsulfatase B encoded by this gene belongs to the sulfatase family. The arylsulfatase B homodimer hydrolyzes sulfate groups of N-Acetyl-D-galactosamine, chondriotin sulfate, and dermatan sulfate. The protein is targetted to the lysozyme. Mucopolysaccharidosis type VI is an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder resulting from a deficiency of arylsulfatase B. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARSB (Arylsulfatase B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARSB include mucopolysaccharidosis type vi and mucopolysaccharidosis type 6, slowly progressing. Among its related pathways are Disease and PTM- gamma carboxylation, hypusine formation and arylsulfatase activation. GO annotations related to this gene include arylsulfatase activity and N-acetylgalactosamine-4-sulfatase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARSJ.	Removes sulfate groups from chondroitin-4-sulfate (C4S) and regulates its degradation (PubMed:19306108). Involved in the regulation of cell adhesion, cell migration and invasion in colonic epithelium (PubMed:19306108). In the central nervous system, is a regulator of neurite outgrowth and neuronal plasticity, acting through the control of sulfate glycosaminoglycans and neurocan levels (By similarity).	same
ARSD	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the sulfatase family. Sulfatases are essential for the correct composition of bone and cartilage matrix. The encoded protein is postranslationally glycosylated and localized to the lysosome. This gene is located within a cluster of similar arylsulfatase genes on chromosome X. A related pseudogene has been identified in the pseudoautosomal region of chromosome Y. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]	ARSD (Arylsulfatase D) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARSD include gastric dilatation and metachromatic leukodystrophy. Among its related pathways are PTM- gamma carboxylation, hypusine formation and arylsulfatase activation and PTM- gamma carboxylation, hypusine formation and arylsulfatase activation. GO annotations related to this gene include arylsulfatase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARSJ.	empty	same
ART3	This gene encodes an arginine-specific ADP-ribosyltransferase. The encoded protein catalyzes a reversible reaction which modifies proteins by the addition or removal of ADP-ribose to an arginine residue to regulate the function of the modified protein. An ADP-ribosyltransferase pseudogene is located on chromosome 11. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	ART3 (ADP-Ribosyltransferase 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Nicotinate and nicotinamide metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include NAD+ ADP-ribosyltransferase activity and NAD(P)+-protein-arginine ADP-ribosyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ART1.	empty	same
ART4	This gene encodes a protein that contains a mono-ADP-ribosylation (ART) motif. It is a member of the ADP-ribosyltransferase gene family but enzymatic activity has not been demonstrated experimentally. Antigens of the Dombrock blood group system are located on the gene product, which is glycosylphosphatidylinosotol-anchored to the erythrocyte membrane. Allelic variants, some of which lead to adverse transfusion reactions, are known. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ART4 (ADP-Ribosyltransferase 4 (Dombrock Blood Group)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ART4 include acute chest syndrome. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Insulin receptor signalling cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include NAD(P)+-protein-arginine ADP-ribosyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ART1.	empty	same
ARTN	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the glial cell line-derived neurotophic factor (GDNF) family of ligands which are a group of ligands within the TGF-beta superfamily of signaling molecules. GDNFs are unique in having neurotrophic properties and have potential use for gene therapy in neurodegenerative disease. Artemin has been shown in culture to support the survival of a number of peripheral neuron populations and at least one population of dopaminergic CNS neurons. Its role in the PNS and CNS is further substantiated by its expression pattern in the proximity of these neurons. This protein is a ligand for the RET receptor and uses GFR-alpha 3 as a coreceptor. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]	ARTN (Artemin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARTN include spinal cord injury and pancreatic cancer. Among its related pathways are L1CAM interactions and L1CAM interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and growth factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is PSPN.	Ligand for the GFR-alpha-3-RET receptor complex but can also activate the GFR-alpha-1-RET receptor complex. Supports the survival of sensory and sympathetic peripheral neurons in culture and also supports the survival of dopaminergic neurons of the ventral mid-brain. Strong attractant of gut hematopoietic cells thus promoting the formation Peyers patch-like structures, a major component of the gut-associated lymphoid tissue.	same
ART5	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the ARG-specific ADP-ribosyltransferase family. Proteins in this family regulate the function of target proteins by attaching ADP-ribose to specific amino acid residues in their target proteins. The mouse homolog lacks a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchor signal sequence and is predicted to be a secretory enzyme. Several transcripts encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]	ART5 (ADP-Ribosyltransferase 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Nicotinate and nicotinamide metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include NAD+ ADP-ribosyltransferase activity and NAD+ nucleosidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ART1.	empty	same
AS3MT	AS3MT catalyzes the transfer of a methyl group from S-adenosyl-L-methionine (AdoMet) to trivalent arsenical and may play a role in arsenic metabolism (Lin et al., 2002 [PubMed 11790780]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	AS3MT (Arsenite Methyltransferase) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Neuropathic Pain-Signaling in Dorsal Horn Neurons and arsenate detoxification I (glutaredoxin). GO annotations related to this gene include arsenite methyltransferase activity and methylarsonite methyltransferase activity.	Catalyzes the transfer of a methyl group from AdoMet to trivalent arsenicals producing methylated and dimethylated arsenicals. It methylates arsenite to form methylarsonate, Me-AsO(3)H(2), which is reduced by methylarsonate reductase to methylarsonite, Me-As(OH)2. Methylarsonite is also a substrate and it is converted into the much less toxic compound dimethylarsinate (cacodylate), Me(2)As(O)-OH (By similarity).	same
ASAH1	This gene encodes a heterodimeric protein consisting of a nonglycosylated alpha subunit and a glycosylated beta subunit that is cleaved to the mature enzyme posttranslationally. The encoded protein catalyzes the synthesis and degradation of ceramide into sphingosine and fatty acid. Mutations in this gene have been associated with a lysosomal storage disorder known as Farber disease. Multiple transcript variants encoding several distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ASAH1 (N-Acylsphingosine Amidohydrolase (Acid Ceramidase) 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ASAH1 include farber lipogranulomatosis and spinal muscular atrophy with progressive myoclonic epilepsy. Among its related pathways are Sphingolipid metabolism and Sphingolipid metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include ceramidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is NAAA.	Hydrolyzes the sphingolipid ceramide into sphingosine and free fatty acid	same
ARV1	empty	ARV1 (ARV1 Homolog (S. Cerevisiae)) is a Protein Coding gene.	May act as a mediator of sterol homeostasis.	same
ASAP1IT1	empty	ASAP1-IT1 (ASAP1 Intronic Transcript 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
ARSH	Sulfatases, such as ARSH, hydrolyze sulfate esters from sulfated steroids, carbohydrates, proteoglycans, and glycolipids. They are involved in hormone biosynthesis, modulation of cell signaling, and degradation of macromolecules (Sardiello et al., 2005 [PubMed 16174644]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	ARSH (Arylsulfatase Family, Member H) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARSH include breast cyst and multiple sulfatase deficiency. Among its related pathways are PTM- gamma carboxylation, hypusine formation and arylsulfatase activation and PTM- gamma carboxylation, hypusine formation and arylsulfatase activation. GO annotations related to this gene include arylsulfatase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ARSJ.	empty	same
ARX	This gene is a homeobox-containing gene expressed during development. The expressed protein contains two conserved domains, a C-peptide (or aristaless domain) and the prd-like class homeobox domain. It is a member of the group-II aristaless-related protein family whose members are expressed primarily in the central and/or peripheral nervous system. This gene is thought to be involved in CNS development. Mutations in this gene cause X-linked mental retardation and epilepsy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ARX (Aristaless Related Homeobox) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARX include epileptic encephalopathy, early infantile, 1 and lissencephaly, x-linked 2. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and chromatin binding. An important paralog of this gene is PHOX2B.	Transcription factor required for normal brain development. May be important for maintenance of specific neuronal subtypes in the cerebral cortex and axonal guidance in the floor plate	same
ASAP2	This gene encodes a multidomain protein containing an N-terminal alpha-helical region with a coiled-coil motif, followed by a pleckstrin homology (PH) domain, an Arf-GAP domain, an ankyrin homology region, a proline-rich region, and a C-terminal Src homology 3 (SH3) domain. The protein localizes in the Golgi apparatus and at the plasma membrane, where it colocalizes with protein tyrosine kinase 2-beta (PYK2). The encoded protein forms a stable complex with PYK2 in vivo. This interaction appears to be mediated by binding of its SH3 domain to the C-terminal proline-rich domain of PYK2. The encoded protein is tyrosine phosphorylated by activated PYK2. It has catalytic activity for class I and II ArfGAPs in vitro, and can bind the class III Arf ARF6 without immediate GAP activity. The encoded protein is believed to function as an ARF GAP that controls ARF-mediated vesicle budding when recruited to Golgi membranes. In addition, it functions as a substrate and downstream target for PYK2 and SRC, a pathway that may be involved in the regulation of vesicular transport. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008]	ASAP2 (ArfGAP With SH3 Domain, Ankyrin Repeat And PH Domain 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ASAP2 include cri-du-chat syndrome. Among its related pathways are Endocytosis and Fc gamma R-mediated phagocytosis. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is ASAP3.	Activates the small GTPases ARF1, ARF5 and ARF6. Regulates the formation of post-Golgi vesicles and modulates constitutive secretion. Modulates phagocytosis mediated by Fc gamma receptor and ARF6. Modulates PXN recruitment to focal contacts and cell migration.	same
ASAP3	This gene encodes a member of a subfamily of ADP-ribosylation factor(Arf) GTPase-activating proteins that contain additional ankyrin repeat and pleckstrin homology domains. The Arf GAP domain of this protein catalyzes the hydrolysis of GTP bound to Arf proteins. The encoded protein promotes cell differentiation and migration and has been implicated in cancer cell invasion. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]	ASAP3 (ArfGAP With SH3 Domain, Ankyrin Repeat And PH Domain 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Endocytosis and Fc gamma R-mediated phagocytosis. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is AGAP2.	Promotes cell proliferation.	same
ARPP21	This gene encodes a cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein. The encoded protein is enriched in the caudate nucleus and cerebellar cortex. A similar protein in mouse may be involved in regulating the effects of dopamine in the basal ganglia. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]	ARPP21 (CAMP-Regulated Phosphoprotein, 21kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleic acid binding and calmodulin binding. An important paralog of this gene is R3HDM1.	Isoform 2 may act as a competitive inhibitor of calmodulin-dependent enzymes such as calcineurin in neurons.	same
ASB11	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the ankyrin repeat and SOCS box-containing (ASB) family of proteins. They contain ankyrin repeat sequence and SOCS box domain. The SOCS box serves to couple suppressor of cytokine signalling (SOCS) proteins and their binding partners with the elongin B and C complex, possibly targeting them for degradation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]	ASB11 (Ankyrin Repeat And SOCS Box Containing 11, E3 Ubiquitin Protein Ligase) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. An important paralog of this gene is ASB5.	May be a substrate-recognition component of a SCF-like ECS (Elongin-Cullin-SOCS-box protein) E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex which mediates the ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of target proteins.	same
ASB12	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the ankyrin repeat and SOCS box-containing (ASB) family of proteins. They contain ankyrin repeat sequence and a SOCS box domain. The SOCS box serves to couple suppressor of cytokine signalling (SOCS) proteins and their binding partners with the elongin B and C complex, possibly targeting them for degradation. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]	ASB12 (Ankyrin Repeat And SOCS Box Containing 12) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. An important paralog of this gene is ASB5.	Probable substrate-recognition component of a SCF-like ECS (Elongin-Cullin-SOCS-box protein) E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex which mediates the ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of target proteins.	same
AR	The androgen receptor gene is more than 90 kb long and codes for a protein that has 3 major functional domains: the N-terminal domain, DNA-binding domain, and androgen-binding domain. The protein functions as a steroid-hormone activated transcription factor. Upon binding the hormone ligand, the receptor dissociates from accessory proteins, translocates into the nucleus, dimerizes, and then stimulates transcription of androgen responsive genes. This gene contains 2 polymorphic trinucleotide repeat segments that encode polyglutamine and polyglycine tracts in the N-terminal transactivation domain of its protein. Expansion of the polyglutamine tract causes spinal bulbar muscular atrophy (Kennedy disease). Mutations in this gene are also associated with complete androgen insensitivity (CAIS). Two alternatively spliced variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AR (Androgen Receptor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AR include prostate cancer and hypospadias 1, x-linked. Among its related pathways are Pathways in cancer and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and chromatin binding. An important paralog of this gene is NR3C1.	Steroid hormone receptors are ligand-activated transcription factors that regulate eukaryotic gene expression and affect cellular proliferation and differentiation in target tissues. Transcription factor activity is modulated by bound coactivator and corepressor proteins. Transcription activation is down-regulated by NR0B2. Activated, but not phosphorylated, by HIPK3 and ZIPK/DAPK3.	same
ASB13	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the ankyrin repeat and SOCS box-containing (ASB) family of proteins. They contain ankyrin repeat sequence and a SOCS box domain. The SOCS box serves to couple suppressor of cytokine signalling (SOCS) proteins and their binding partners with the elongin B and C complex, possibly targeting them for degradation. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants, both protein-coding and not protein-coding, have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]	ASB13 (Ankyrin Repeat And SOCS Box Containing 13) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. An important paralog of this gene is ASB5.	May be a substrate-recognition component of a SCF-like ECS (Elongin-Cullin-SOCS-box protein) E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex which mediates the ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of target proteins.	same
ASB15	This gene encodes a member of the suppressor of cytokine signaling box superfamily. The proteins in this superfamily participate in the ubiquitin-proteasome system for the degradation of proteins in the cell cycle and signal transduction pathways. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2014]	ASB15 (Ankyrin Repeat And SOCS Box Containing 15) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. An important paralog of this gene is GPR75-ASB3.	May be a substrate-recognition component of a SCF-like ECS (Elongin-Cullin-SOCS-box protein) E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex which mediates the ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of target proteins.	same
ASB14	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the ankyrin repeat and SOCS box-containing (ASB) family of proteins. They contain ankyrin repeat sequence and a SOCS box domain. The SOCS box serves to couple suppressor of cytokine signalling (SOCS) proteins and their binding partners with the elongin B and C complex, possibly targeting them for degradation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]	ASB14 (Ankyrin Repeat And SOCS Box Containing 14) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ASB14 include cat-scratch disease and junctional epidermolysis bullosa. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. An important paralog of this gene is ASB15.	May be a substrate-recognition component of a SCF-like ECS (Elongin-Cullin-SOCS-box protein) E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex which mediates the ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of target proteins.	same
ARVCF	Armadillo Repeat gene deleted in Velo-Cardio-Facial syndrome (ARVCF) is a member of the catenin family. This family plays an important role in the formation of adherens junction complexes, which are thought to facilitate communication between the inside and outside environments of a cell. The ARVCF gene was isolated in the search for the genetic defect responsible for the autosomal dominant Velo-Cardio-Facial syndrome (VCFS), a relatively common human disorder with phenotypic features including cleft palate, conotruncal heart defects and facial dysmorphology. The ARVCF gene encodes a protein containing two motifs, a coiled coil domain in the N-terminus and a 10 armadillo repeat sequence in the midregion. Since these sequences can facilitate protein-protein interactions ARVCF is thought to function in a protein complex. In addition, ARVCF contains a predicted nuclear-targeting sequence suggesting that it may have a function as a nuclear protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	ARVCF (Armadillo Repeat Gene Deleted In Velocardiofacial Syndrome) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ARVCF include velocardiofacial syndrome and schizophrenia. An important paralog of this gene is PKP3.	Involved in protein-protein interactions at adherens junctions	same
ASB10	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the ankyrin repeat and SOCS box-containing (ASB) family of proteins. The SOCS box serves to couple suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS) proteins and their binding partners with the elongin B and C complex, possibly targeting them for degradation. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]	ASB10 (Ankyrin Repeat And SOCS Box Containing 10) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ASB10 include glaucoma 1, open angle, f and open-angle glaucoma. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. An important paralog of this gene is ASB18.	May be a substrate-recognition component of a SCF-like ECS (Elongin-Cullin-SOCS-box protein) E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex which mediates the ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of target proteins.	same
ASB16	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the ankyrin repeat and SOCS box-containing (ASB) family of proteins. They contain ankyrin repeat sequence and a SOCS box domain. The SOCS box serves to couple suppressor of cytokine signalling (SOCS) proteins and their binding partners with the elongin B and C complex, possibly targeting them for degradation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ASB16 (Ankyrin Repeat And SOCS Box Containing 16) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. An important paralog of this gene is ASB10.	May be a substrate-recognition component of a SCF-like ECS (Elongin-Cullin-SOCS-box protein) E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex which mediates the ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of target proteins.	same
ASB17	empty	ASB17 (Ankyrin Repeat And SOCS Box Containing 17) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation.	May be a substrate-recognition component of a SCF-like ECS (Elongin-Cullin-SOCS-box protein) E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex which mediates the ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of target proteins.	same
ASB18	empty	ASB18 (Ankyrin Repeat And SOCS Box Containing 18) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. An important paralog of this gene is ASB10.	May be a substrate-recognition component of a SCF-like ECS (Elongin-Cullin-SOCS-box protein) E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex which mediates the ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of target proteins.	same
ASAH2	Ceramidases (EC 3.5.1.23), such as ASAH2, catalyze hydrolysis of the N-acyl linkage of ceramide, a second messenger in a variety of cellular events, to produce sphingosine. Sphingosine exerts both mitogenic and apoptosis-inducing activities, and its phosphorylated form functions as an intra- and intercellular second messenger (see MIM 603730) (Mitsutake et al., 2001 [PubMed 11328816]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	ASAH2 (N-Acylsphingosine Amidohydrolase (Non-Lysosomal Ceramidase) 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ASAH2 include obstructive jaundice and sphingolipidosis. Among its related pathways are Sphingolipid metabolism and Sphingolipid metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include ceramidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ASAH2B.	Hydrolyzes the sphingolipid ceramide into sphingosine and free fatty acid at an optimal pH of 6.5-8.5. Acts as a key regulator of sphingolipid signaling metabolites by generating sphingosine at the cell surface. Acts as a repressor of apoptosis both by reducing C16-ceramide, thereby preventing ceramide-induced apoptosis, and generating sphingosine, a precursor of the antiapoptotic factor sphingosine 1-phosphate. Probably involved in the digestion of dietary sphingolipids in intestine by acting as a key enzyme for the catabolism of dietary sphingolipids and regulating the levels of bioactive sphingolipid metabolites in the intestinal tract.	same
ASAH2B	empty	ASAH2B (N-Acylsphingosine Amidohydrolase (Non-Lysosomal Ceramidase) 2B) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Sphingolipid metabolism and Sphingolipid metabolism. An important paralog of this gene is ASAH2.	empty	same
ASAM	The CTX (see VSIG2, MIM 606011) family of proteins, including ASAM, are type I transmembrane proteins within the Ig superfamily that localize to junctional complexes between endothelial and epithelial cells and may play a role in cell-cell adhesion (Raschperger et al., 2004 [PubMed 14573622]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CLMP (CXADR-Like Membrane Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLMP include congenital short bowel syndrome and short bowel syndrome. An important paralog of this gene is VSIG8.	May be involved in the cell-cell adhesion. May play a role in adipocyte differentiation and development of obesity. Is required for normal small intestine development.	diff
ASB1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the ankyrin repeat and SOCS box-containing (ASB) family of proteins. They contain ankyrin repeat sequence and SOCS box domain. The SOCS box serves to couple suppressor of cytokine signalling (SOCS) proteins and their binding partners with the elongin B and C complex, possibly targeting them for degradation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ASB1 (Ankyrin Repeat And SOCS Box Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. An important paralog of this gene is ASB5.	May play a role in testis development (By similarity). Probable substrate-recognition component of a SCF-like ECS (Elongin-Cullin-SOCS-box protein) E3 ligase complex which mediates the ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of target proteins.	same
ASB3	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the ankyrin repeat and SOCS box-containing (ASB) family of proteins. They contain ankyrin repeat sequence and SOCS box domain. The SOCS box serves to couple suppressor of cytokine signalling (SOCS) proteins and their binding partners with the elongin B and C complex, possibly targeting them for degradation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]	ASB3 (Ankyrin Repeat And SOCS Box Containing 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. An important paralog of this gene is ASB15.	Probable substrate-recognition component of a SCF-like ECS (Elongin-Cullin-SOCS-box protein) E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex which mediates the ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of target proteins. Recognizes TNFRSF1B.	same
ASAP1	This gene encodes an ADP-ribosylation factor (ARF) GTPase-activating protein. The GTPase-activating activity is stimulated by phosphatidylinositol 4,5-biphosphate (PIP2), and is greater towards ARF1 and ARF5, and lesser for ARF6. This gene maybe involved in regulation of membrane trafficking and cytoskeleton remodeling. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]	ASAP1 (ArfGAP With SH3 Domain, Ankyrin Repeat And PH Domain 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Endocytosis and Integrin Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is ASAP3.	Possesses phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate-dependent GTPase-activating protein activity for ARF1 (ADP ribosylation factor 1) and ARF5 and a lesser activity towards ARF6. May coordinate membrane trafficking with cell growth or actin cytoskeleton remodeling by binding to both SRC and PIP2. May function as a signal transduction protein involved in the differentiation of fibroblasts into adipocytes and possibly other cell types (By similarity). Plays a role in ciliogenesis.	same
ASB2	This gene encodes a member of the ankyrin repeat and SOCS box-containing (ASB) protein family. These proteins play a role in protein degradation by coupling suppressor of cytokine signalling (SOCS) proteins with the elongin BC complex. The encoded protein is a subunit of a multimeric E3 ubiquitin ligase complex that mediates the degradation of actin-binding proteins. This gene plays a role in retinoic acid-induced growth inhibition and differentiation of myeloid leukemia cells. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]	ASB2 (Ankyrin Repeat And SOCS Box Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ASB2 include myeloid leukemia. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin-protein transferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ASB15.	Substrate-recognition component of a SCF-like ECS (Elongin-Cullin-SOCS-box protein) E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex which mediates the ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of target proteins.	same
ASCL1	This gene encodes a member of the basic helix-loop-helix (BHLH) family of transcription factors. The protein activates transcription by binding to the E box (5'-CANNTG-3'). Dimerization with other BHLH proteins is required for efficient DNA binding. This protein plays a role in the neuronal commitment and differentiation and in the generation of olfactory and autonomic neurons. Mutations in this gene may contribute to the congenital central hypoventilation syndrome (CCHS) phenotype in rare cases. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ASCL1 (Achaete-Scute Family BHLH Transcription Factor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ASCL1 include central hypoventilation syndrome, congenital and differentiating neuroblastoma. Among its related pathways are Neural Crest Differentiation and Notch-mediated HES/HEY network. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and sequence-specific DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is ASCL4.	Transcription factor that controls transcriptional expression of its target genes by binding to the E box (5-CANNTG-3). Plays a role at early stages of development of specific neural lineages in most regions of the CNS, and of several lineages in the PNS. Acts synergistically with FOXN4 to specify the identity of V2b neurons rather than V2a from bipotential p2 progenitors during spinal cord neurogenesis, probably through DLL4-NOTCH signaling activation. Essential for the generation of olfactory and autonomic neurons (By similarity).	same
ASCL3	Basic helix-loop-helix transcription factors, such as ASCL3, are essential for the determination of cell fate and the development and differentiation of numerous tissues (Jonsson et al., 2004 [PubMed 15475265]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	ASCL3 (Achaete-Scute Family BHLH Transcription Factor 3) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein dimerization activity. An important paralog of this gene is ASCL4.	Transcriptional repressor. Inhibits myogenesis (By similarity).	same
ASB8	empty	ASB8 (Ankyrin Repeat And SOCS Box Containing 8) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. An important paralog of this gene is ASB7.	May be a substrate-recognition component of a SCF-like ECS (Elongin-Cullin-SOCS-box protein) E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex which mediates the ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of target proteins.	same
ASCC1	This gene encodes a subunit of the activating signal cointegrator 1 (ASC-1) complex. The ASC-1 complex is a transcriptional coactivator that plays an important role in gene transactivation by multiple transcription factors including activating protein 1 (AP-1), nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-kB) and serum response factor (SRF). The encoded protein contains an N-terminal KH-type RNA-binding motif which is required for AP-1 transactivation by the ASC-1 complex. Mutations in this gene are associated with Barrett esophagus and esophageal adenocarcinoma. Alternatively spliced transcripts encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	ASCC1 (Activating Signal Cointegrator 1 Complex Subunit 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ASCC1 include barrett esophagus/esophageal adenocarcinoma and adenocarcinoma. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding.	Enhances NF-kappa-B, SRF and AP1 transactivation. In cells responding to gastrin-activated paracrine signals, it is involved in the induction of SERPINB2 expression by gastrin.	same
ASB4	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the ankyrin repeat and SOCS box-containing (ASB) family of proteins. They contain ankyrin repeat sequence and SOCS box domain. The SOCS box serves to couple suppressor of cytokine signalling (SOCS) proteins and their binding partners with the elongin B and C complex, possibly targeting them for degradation. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene but some of the full length sequences are not known. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ASB4 (Ankyrin Repeat And SOCS Box Containing 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin-protein transferase activity and ubiquitin protein ligase binding. An important paralog of this gene is ASB10.	Probable substrate-recognition component of a SCF-like ECS (Elongin-Cullin-SOCS-box protein) E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex which mediates the ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of target proteins. Promotes differentiation and maturation of the vascular lineage by an oxygen-dependent mechanism (By similarity).	same
ASCL4	Basic helix-loop-helix transcription factors, such as ASCL4, are essential for the determination of cell fate and the development and differentiation of numerous tissues (Jonsson et al., 2004 [PubMed 15475265]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	ASCL4 (Achaete-Scute Family BHLH Transcription Factor 4) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein dimerization activity. An important paralog of this gene is ASCL2.	Could be a transcriptional regulator involved in skin development.	same
ASB7	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a family of ankyrin repeat proteins that, along with four other protein families, contains a C-terminal SOCS box motif. Growing evidence suggests that the SOCS box acts as a bridge between specific substrate-binding domains and the more generic proteins that comprise a large family of E3 ubiquitin protein ligases. In this way, SOCS box containing proteins may regulate protein turnover by targeting proteins for polyubiquination and, therefore, for proteasome-mediated degradation. Two alternative transcripts encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ASB7 (Ankyrin Repeat And SOCS Box Containing 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. An important paralog of this gene is ANKRD42.	Probable substrate-recognition component of a SCF-like ECS (Elongin-Cullin-SOCS-box protein) E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex which mediates the ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of target proteins.	same
ASCC3	This gene encodes a protein that belongs to a family of helicases that are involved in the ATP-dependent unwinding of nucleic acid duplexes. The encoded protein is the largest subunit of the activating signal cointegrator 1 complex that is involved in DNA repair and resistance to alkylation damage. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2013]	ASCC3 (Activating Signal Cointegrator 1 Complex Subunit 3) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleic acid binding and ATP-dependent 3-5 DNA helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is SNRNP200.	3-5 DNA helicase involved in repair of alkylated DNA. Promotes DNA unwinding to generate single-stranded substrate needed for ALKHB3, enabling ALKHB3 to process alkylated N3-methylcytosine (3mC) within double-stranded regions. Enhances NF-kappa-B, SRF and AP1 transactivation.	same
ASB6	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a family of ankyrin repeat proteins that, along with four other protein families, contain a C-terminal SOCS box motif. Growing evidence suggests that the SOCS box, similar to the F-box, acts as a bridge between specific substrate-binding domains and the more generic proteins that comprise a large family of E3 ubiquitin protein ligases. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]	ASB6 (Ankyrin Repeat And SOCS Box Containing 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation.	Probable substrate-recognition component of a SCF-like ECS (Elongin-Cullin-SOCS-box protein) E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex which mediates the ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of target proteins.	same
ASCC2	empty	ASCC2 (Activating Signal Cointegrator 1 Complex Subunit 2) is a Protein Coding gene.	Enhances NF-kappa-B, SRF and AP1 transactivation	same
ASCL2	This gene is a member of the basic helix-loop-helix (BHLH) family of transcription factors. It activates transcription by binding to the E box (5'-CANNTG-3'). Dimerization with other BHLH proteins is required for efficient DNA binding. Involved in the determination of the neuronal precursors in the peripheral nervous system and the central nervous system. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ASCL2 (Achaete-Scute Family BHLH Transcription Factor 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Human Early Embryo Development. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and protein dimerization activity. An important paralog of this gene is ASCL4.	AS-C proteins are involved in the determination of the neuronal precursors in the peripheral nervous system and the central nervous system	same
ASF1A	This gene encodes a member of the H3/H4 family of histone chaperone proteins and is similar to the anti-silencing function-1 gene in yeast. The protein is a key component of a histone donor complex that functions in nucleosome assembly. It interacts with histones H3 and H4, and functions together with a chromatin assembly factor during DNA replication and repair. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ASF1A (Anti-Silencing Function 1A Histone Chaperone) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cellular Senescence and Chromatin Regulation / Acetylation. GO annotations related to this gene include chromatin binding and histone binding. An important paralog of this gene is ASF1B.	Histone chaperone that facilitates histone deposition and histone exchange and removal during nucleosome assembly and disassembly. Cooperates with chromatin assembly factor 1 (CAF-1) to promote replication-dependent chromatin assembly and with HIRA to promote replication-independent chromatin assembly. Required for the formation of senescence-associated heterochromatin foci (SAHF) and efficient senescence-associated cell cycle exit.	same
ASF1B	This gene encodes a member of the H3/H4 family of histone chaperone proteins and is similar to the anti-silencing function-1 gene in yeast. The encoded protein is the substrate of the tousled-like kinase family of cell cycle-regulated kinases, and may play a key role in modulating the nucleosome structure of chromatin by ensuring a constant supply of histones at sites of nucleosome assembly. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ASF1B (Anti-Silencing Function 1B Histone Chaperone) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Chromatin Regulation / Acetylation. GO annotations related to this gene include histone binding. An important paralog of this gene is ASF1A.	Histone chaperone that facilitates histone deposition and histone exchange and removal during nucleosome assembly and disassembly. Cooperates with chromatin assembly factor 1 (CAF-1) to promote replication-dependent chromatin assembly. Does not participate in replication-independent nucleosome deposition which is mediated by ASF1A and HIRA. Required for spermatogenesis.	same
ASB5	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the ankyrin repeat and SOCS box-containing (ASB) family of proteins. They contain ankyrin repeat sequence and SOCS box domain. The SOCS box serves to couple suppressor of cytokine signalling (SOCS) proteins and their binding partners with the elongin B and C complex, possibly targeting them for degradation. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene but their full length sequences are not known. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ASB5 (Ankyrin Repeat And SOCS Box Containing 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. An important paralog of this gene is ASB11.	May be a substrate-recognition component of a SCF-like ECS (Elongin-Cullin-SOCS-box protein) E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex which mediates the ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of target proteins. May play a role in the initiation of arteriogenesis (By similarity).	same
ASFMR1	empty	FMR1-AS1 (FMR1 Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class.	empty	diff
ASGR2	This gene encodes a subunit of the asialoglycoprotein receptor. This receptor is a transmembrane protein that plays a critical role in serum glycoprotein homeostasis by mediating the endocytosis and lysosomal degradation of glycoproteins with exposed terminal galactose or N-acetylgalactosamine residues. The asialoglycoprotein receptor may facilitate hepatic infection by multiple viruses including hepatitis B, and is also a target for liver-specific drug delivery. The asialoglycoprotein receptor is a hetero-oligomeric protein composed of major and minor subunits, which are encoded by different genes. The protein encoded by this gene is the less abundant minor subunit. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]	ASGR2 (Asialoglycoprotein Receptor 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ASGR2 include hepatitis b and liver cirrhosis. Among its related pathways are Insulin secretion. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding and asialoglycoprotein receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLEC4D.	Mediates the endocytosis of plasma glycoproteins to which the terminal sialic acid residue on their complex carbohydrate moieties has been removed. The receptor recognizes terminal galactose and N-acetylgalactosamine units. After ligand binding to the receptor, the resulting complex is internalized and transported to a sorting organelle, where receptor and ligand are disassociated. The receptor then returns to the cell membrane surface	same
ASB9	This gene encodes a member of the ankyrin repeat and suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS) box protein family. Members of this family can interact with the elongin B-C adapter complex via their SOCS box domain and further complex with the cullin and ring box proteins to form E3 ubiquitin ligase complexes. They may function to mediate the substrate-recognition of the E3 ubiquitin ligases. A transcribed pseudogene of this gene has been identified on chromosome 15. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]	ASB9 (Ankyrin Repeat And SOCS Box Containing 9) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. An important paralog of this gene is ASB5.	Substrate-recognition component of a SCF-like ECS (Elongin-Cullin-SOCS-box protein) E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex which mediates the ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of target proteins. Recognizes at least two forms of creatine kinase, CKB and CKMT1A.	same
ASNSD1	empty	ASNSD1 (Asparagine Synthetase Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include asparagine synthase (glutamine-hydrolyzing) activity.	empty	same
ASPA	This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of N-acetyl_L-aspartic acid (NAA) to aspartate and acetate. NAA is abundant in the brain where hydrolysis by aspartoacylase is thought to help maintain white matter. This protein is an NAA scavenger in other tissues. Mutations in this gene cause Canavan disease. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ASPA (Aspartoacylase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ASPA include canavan disease and mild canavan disease. Among its related pathways are Alanine, aspartate and glutamate metabolism and Alanine and aspartate metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrolase activity, acting on ester bonds and aspartoacylase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACY3.	Catalyzes the deacetylation of N-acetylaspartic acid (NAA) to produce acetate and L-aspartate. NAA occurs in high concentration in brain and its hydrolysis NAA plays a significant part in the maintenance of intact white matter. In other tissues it act as a scavenger of NAA from body fluids	same
ASGR1	This gene encodes a subunit of the asialoglycoprotein receptor. This receptor is a transmembrane protein that plays a critical role in serum glycoprotein homeostasis by mediating the endocytosis and lysosomal degradation of glycoproteins with exposed terminal galactose or N-acetylgalactosamine residues. The asialoglycoprotein receptor may facilitate hepatic infection by multiple viruses including hepatitis B, and is also a target for liver-specific drug delivery. The asialoglycoprotein receptor is a hetero-oligomeric protein composed of major and minor subunits, which are encoded by different genes. The protein encoded by this gene is the more abundant major subunit. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]	ASGR1 (Asialoglycoprotein Receptor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ASGR1 include hepatitis b and hepatitis. Among its related pathways are Insulin secretion. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and asialoglycoprotein receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLEC4D.	Mediates the endocytosis of plasma glycoproteins to which the terminal sialic acid residue on their complex carbohydrate moieties has been removed. The receptor recognizes terminal galactose and N-acetylgalactosamine units. After ligand binding to the receptor, the resulting complex is internalized and transported to a sorting organelle, where receptor and ligand are disassociated. The receptor then returns to the cell membrane surface	same
ASPDH	empty	ASPDH (Aspartate Dehydrogenase Domain Containing) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include NADP binding and aspartate dehydrogenase activity.	Specifically catalyzes the NAD or NADP-dependent dehydrogenation of L-aspartate to iminoaspartate.	same
ASH2L	empty	ASH2L (Ash2 (Absent, Small, Or Homeotic)-Like (Drosophila)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Chromatin Regulation / Acetylation. GO annotations related to this gene include transcription regulatory region DNA binding and histone methyltransferase activity (H3-K4 specific).	Component of the Set1/Ash2 histone methyltransferase (HMT) complex, a complex that specifically methylates Lys-4 of histone H3, but not if the neighboring Lys-9 residue is already methylated. As part of the MLL1/MLL complex it is involved in methylation and dimethylation at Lys-4 of histone H3. May function as a transcriptional regulator. May play a role in hematopoiesis.	same
ASNA1	This gene represents the human homolog of the bacterial arsA gene, encoding the arsenite-stimulated ATPase component of the arsenite transporter responsible for resistance to arsenicals. This protein is also a central component of a transmembrane domain (TMD) recognition complex (TRC) that is involved in the post-translational delivery of tail-anchored (TA) proteins from the cytosol to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). It recognizes and selectively binds the TMD of TA proteins in the cytosol, and delivers them to the ER for insertion. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]	ASNA1 (ArsA Arsenite Transporter, ATP-Binding, Homolog 1 (Bacterial)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ASNA1 include breast adenoma. Among its related pathways are PTM- gamma carboxylation, hypusine formation and arylsulfatase activation and PTM- gamma carboxylation, hypusine formation and arylsulfatase activation. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity and arsenite transmembrane transporter activity.	ATPase required for the post-translational delivery of tail-anchored (TA) proteins to the endoplasmic reticulum. Recognizes and selectively binds the transmembrane domain of TA proteins in the cytosol. This complex then targets to the endoplasmic reticulum by membrane-bound receptors, where the tail-anchored protein is released for insertion. This process is regulated by ATP binding and hydrolysis. ATP binding drives the homodimer towards the closed dimer state, facilitating recognition of newly synthesized TA membrane proteins. ATP hydrolysis is required for insertion. Subsequently, the homodimer reverts towards the open dimer state, lowering its affinity for the membrane-bound receptor, and returning it to the cytosol to initiate a new round of targeting (By similarity). May be involved in insulin signaling.	same
ASPG	empty	ASPG (Asparaginase) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell adhesion molecules (CAMs) and asparagine degradation I. GO annotations related to this gene include lysophospholipase activity and asparaginase activity.	Exhibits lysophospholipase, transacylase, PAF acetylhydrolase and asparaginase activities	same
ASNS	The protein encoded by this gene is involved in the synthesis of asparagine. This gene complements a mutation in the temperature-sensitive hamster mutant ts11, which blocks progression through the G1 phase of the cell cycle at nonpermissive temperature. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	ASNS (Asparagine Synthetase (Glutamine-Hydrolyzing)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ASNS include asparagine synthetase deficiency and congenital microcephaly-severe encephalopathy-progressive cerebral atrophy syndrome. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and asparagine synthase (glutamine-hydrolyzing) activity.	empty	same
ASPHD1	empty	ASPHD1 (Aspartate Beta-Hydroxylase Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include dioxygenase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ASPH.	empty	same
ASPM	This gene is the human ortholog of the Drosophila melanogaster 'abnormal spindle' gene (asp), which is essential for normal mitotic spindle function in embryonic neuroblasts. Studies in mouse also suggest a role of this gene in mitotic spindle regulation, with a preferential role in regulating neurogenesis. Mutations in this gene are associated with microcephaly primary type 5. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, May 2011]	ASPM (Asp (Abnormal Spindle) Homolog, Microcephaly Associated (Drosophila)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ASPM include microcephaly 5, primary, autosomal recessive and microcephaly. GO annotations related to this gene include calmodulin binding.	Probable role in mitotic spindle regulation and coordination of mitotic processes. May have a preferential role in regulating neurogenesis.	same
ASPH	This gene is thought to play an important role in calcium homeostasis. The gene is expressed from two promoters and undergoes extensive alternative splicing. The encoded set of proteins share varying amounts of overlap near their N-termini but have substantial variations in their C-terminal domains resulting in distinct functional properties. The longest isoforms (a and f) include a C-terminal Aspartyl/Asparaginyl beta-hydroxylase domain that hydroxylates aspartic acid or asparagine residues in the epidermal growth factor (EGF)-like domains of some proteins, including protein C, coagulation factors VII, IX, and X, and the complement factors C1R and C1S. Other isoforms differ primarily in the C-terminal sequence and lack the hydroxylase domain, and some have been localized to the endoplasmic and sarcoplasmic reticulum. Some of these isoforms are found in complexes with calsequestrin, triadin, and the ryanodine receptor, and have been shown to regulate calcium release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum. Some isoforms have been implicated in metastasis. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]	ASPH (Aspartate Beta-Hydroxylase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ASPH include traboulsi syndrome and regular astigmatism. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and electron carrier activity. An important paralog of this gene is ASPHD1.	Isoform 1: specifically hydroxylates an Asp or Asn residue in certain epidermal growth factor-like (EGF) domains of a number of proteins.	same
ASPN	This gene encodes a cartilage extracellular protein that is member of the small leucine-rich proteoglycan family. The encoded protein may regulate chondrogenesis by inhibiting transforming growth factor-beta 1-induced gene expression in cartilage. This protein also binds collagen and calcium and may induce collagen mineralization. Polymorphisms in the aspartic acid repeat region of this gene are associated with a susceptibility to osteoarthritis, and also with intervertebral disc disease. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]	ASPN (Asporin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ASPN include intervertebral disc disease and degenerative disc disease. Among its related pathways are Degradation of the extracellular matrix and ECM proteoglycans. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is ECM2.	Negatively regulates periodontal ligament (PDL) differentiation and mineralization to ensure that the PDL is not ossified and to maintain homeostasis of the tooth-supporting system. Inhibits BMP2-induced cytodifferentiation of PDL cells by preventing its binding to BMPR1B/BMP type-1B receptor, resulting in inhibition of BMP-dependent activation of SMAD proteins (By similarity). Critical regulator of TGF-beta in articular cartilage and plays an essential role in cartilage homeostasis and osteoarthritis (OA) pathogenesis. Negatively regulates chondrogenesis in the articular cartilage by blocking the TGF-beta/receptor interaction on the cell surface and inhibiting the canonical TGF-beta/Smad signal. Binds calcium and plays a role in osteoblast-driven collagen biomineralization activity.	same
ASL	This gene encodes a member of the lyase 1 family. The encoded protein forms a cytosolic homotetramer and primarily catalyzes the reversible hydrolytic cleavage of argininosuccinate into arginine and fumarate, an essential step in the liver in detoxifying ammonia via the urea cycle. Mutations in this gene result in the autosomal recessive disorder argininosuccinic aciduria, or argininosuccinic acid lyase deficiency. A nontranscribed pseudogene is also located on the long arm of chromosome 22. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ASL (Argininosuccinate Lyase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ASL include argininosuccinic aciduria and lysinuric protein intolerance. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Carbon metabolism. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000249319.	empty	same
ASH1L	This gene encodes a member of the trithorax group of transcriptional activators. The protein contains four AT hooks, a SET domain, a PHD-finger motif, and a bromodomain. It is localized to many small speckles in the nucleus, and also to cell-cell tight junctions. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ASH1L (Ash1 (Absent, Small, Or Homeotic)-Like (Drosophila)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Tight junction and Lysine degradation. GO annotations related to this gene include histone-lysine N-methyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is EHMT1.	Histone methyltransferase specifically methylating Lys-36 of histone H3 (H3K36me).	same
ASPHD2	empty	ASPHD2 (Aspartate Beta-Hydroxylase Domain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include dioxygenase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ASPH.	May function as 2-oxoglutarate-dependent dioxygenase.	same
ASTE1	empty	ASTE1 (Asteroid Homolog 1 (Drosophila)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ASTE1 include hailey-hailey disease. GO annotations related to this gene include nuclease activity.	Possible role in EGF receptor signaling.	same
ASRGL1	empty	ASRGL1 (Asparaginase Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ASRGL1 include central nervous system leukemia. Among its related pathways are asparagine degradation I. GO annotations related to this gene include N4-(beta-N-acetylglucosaminyl)-L-asparaginase activity and beta-aspartyl-peptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is TASP1.	Has both L-asparaginase and beta-aspartyl peptidase activity. May be involved in the production of L-aspartate, which can act as an excitatory neurotransmitter in some brain regions. Is highly active with L-Asp beta-methyl ester. Besides, has catalytic activity toward beta-aspartyl dipeptides and their methyl esters, including beta-L-Asp-L-Phe, beta-L-Asp-L-Phe methyl ester (aspartame), beta-L-Asp-L-Ala, beta-L-Asp-L-Leu and beta-L-Asp-L-Lys. Does not have aspartylglucosaminidase activity and is inactive toward GlcNAc-L-Asn. Likewise, has no activity toward glutamine.	same
ASTL	empty	ASTL (Astacin-Like Metallo-Endopeptidase (M12 Family)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include metalloendopeptidase activity and aspartic-type peptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is MEP1A.	Oocyte-specific oolemmal receptor involved in sperm and egg adhesion and fertilization. Plays a role in the polyspermy inhibition. Probably acts as a protease for the post-fertilization cleavage of ZP2. Cleaves the sperm-binding ZP2 at the surface of the zona pellucida after fertilization and cortical granule exocytosis, rendering the zona pellucida unable to support further sperm binding (By similarity).	same
ASMT	This gene belongs to the methyltransferase superfamily, and is located in the pseudoautosomal region (PAR) at the end of the short arms of the X and Y chromosomes. The encoded enzyme catalyzes the final reaction in the synthesis of melatonin, and is abundant in the pineal gland. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been noted for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]	ASMT (Acetylserotonin O-Methyltransferase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ASMT include pineoblastoma and pineocytoma. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and O-methyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ASMTL.	Isoform 1 catalyzes the transfer of a methyl group onto N-acetylserotonin, producing melatonin (N-acetyl-5-methoxytryptamine). Isoform 2 and isoform 3 lack enzyme activity.	same
ASIP	In mice, the agouti gene encodes a paracrine signaling molecule that causes hair follicle melanocytes to synthesize pheomelanin, a yellow pigment, instead of the black or brown pigment, eumelanin. Pleiotropic effects of constitutive expression of the mouse gene include adult-onset obesity, increased tumor susceptibility, and premature infertility. This gene is highly similar to the mouse gene and encodes a secreted protein that may (1) affect the quality of hair pigmentation, (2) act as a pharmacological antagonist of alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone, (3) play a role in neuroendocrine aspects of melanocortin action, and (4) have a functional role in regulating lipid metabolism in adipocytes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ASIP (Agouti Signaling Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ASIP include autoimmune hepatitis and obesity. Among its related pathways are Insulin-mediated glucose transport and Adipogenesis. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and type 4 melanocortin receptor binding.	Involved in the regulation of melanogenesis. The binding of ASP to MC1R precludes alpha-MSH initiated signaling and thus blocks production of cAMP, leading to a down-regulation of eumelanogenesis (brown/black pigment) and thus increasing synthesis of pheomelanin (yellow/red pigment). In higher primates, agouti may affect the quality of hair pigmentation rather than its pattern of deposition. Could well play a role in neuroendocrine aspects of melanocortin action. May have some functional role in regulating the lipid metabolism with adipocytes	same
ASMTL	The protein encoded by this gene has an N-terminus that is similar to the multicopy associated filamentation (maf) protein of Bacillus subtilis and to orfE of Escherichia coli, while the C-terminus is similar to N-acetylserotonin O-methyltransferase. This gene is located in the pseudoautosomal region 1 (PAR1) of X and Y chromosomes. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]	ASMTL (Acetylserotonin O-Methyltransferase-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ASMTL include patau syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include O-methyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ASMT.	Unknown. The presence of the putative catalytic domain of S-adenosyl-L-methionine binding argues for a methyltransferase activity	same
ASS1	The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the penultimate step of the arginine biosynthetic pathway. There are approximately 10 to 14 copies of this gene including the pseudogenes scattered across the human genome, among which the one located on chromosome 9 appears to be the only functional gene for argininosuccinate synthetase. Mutations in the chromosome 9 copy of this gene cause citrullinemia. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012]	ASS1 (Argininosuccinate Synthase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ASS1 include citrullinemia and adult-onset citrullinemia type i. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Carbon metabolism.	Is indirectly involved in the control of blood pressure.	same
ASTN1	Astrotactin is a neuronal adhesion molecule required for glial-guided migration of young postmitotic neuroblasts in cortical regions of developing brain, including cerebrum, hippocampus, cerebellum, and olfactory bulb (Fink et al., 1995).[supplied by OMIM, Jun 2009]	ASTN1 (Astrotactin 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ASTN2.	Neuronal adhesion molecule that is required for glial-guided migration of young postmitotic neuroblasts in cortical regions of developing brain, including cerebrum, hippocampus, cerebellum and olfactory bulb	same
ASXL1	This gene is similar to the Drosophila additional sex combs gene, which encodes a chromatin-binding protein required for normal determination of segment identity in the developing embryo. The protein is a member of the Polycomb group of proteins, which are necessary for the maintenance of stable repression of homeotic and other loci. The protein is thought to disrupt chromatin in localized areas, enhancing transcription of certain genes while repressing the transcription of other genes. The protein encoded by this gene functions as a ligand-dependent co-activator for retinoic acid receptor in cooperation with nuclear receptor coactivator 1. Mutations in this gene are associated with myelodysplastic syndromes and chronic myelomonocytic leukemia. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]	ASXL1 (Additional Sex Combs Like Transcriptional Regulator 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ASXL1 include bohring-opitz syndrome and myelodysplastic syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include transcription coactivator activity and retinoic acid receptor binding. An important paralog of this gene is ASXL2.	Probable Polycomb group (PcG) protein involved in transcriptional regulation mediated by ligand-bound nuclear hormone receptors, such as retinoic acid receptors (RARs) and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARG). Acts as coactivator of RARA and RXRA through association with NCOA1. Acts as corepressor through recruitment of KDM1A and CBX5 to target genes in a cell-type specific manner; the function seems to involve differential recruitment of methylated histone H3 to respective promoters. Acts as corepressor for PPARG and suppresses its adipocyte differentiation-inducing activity (By similarity). Non-catalytic component of the PR-DUB complex, a complex that specifically mediates deubiquitination of histone H2A monoubiquitinated at Lys-119 (H2AK119ub1).	same
ASTN2	This gene encodes a protein that is expressed in the brain and may function in neuronal migration, based on functional studies of the related astrotactin 1 gene in human and mouse. A deletion at this locus has been associated with schizophrenia. Multiple transcript variants encoding different proteins have been found for this locus. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	ASTN2 (Astrotactin 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ASTN2 include schizophrenia. An important paralog of this gene is ASTN1.	empty	same
ASPSCR1	The protein encoded by this gene contains a UBX domain and interacts with glucose transporter type 4 (GLUT4). This protein is a tether, which sequesters the GLUT4 in intracellular vesicles in muscle and fat cells in the absence of insulin, and redistributes the GLUT4 to the plasma membrane within minutes of insulin stimulation. Translocation t(X;17)(p11;q25) of this gene with transcription factor TFE3 gene results in a ASPSCR1-TFE3 fusion protein in alveolar soft part sarcoma and in renal cell carcinomas. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]	ASPSCR1 (Alveolar Soft Part Sarcoma Chromosome Region, Candidate 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ASPSCR1 include alveolar soft-part sarcoma and translocation renal cell carcinoma. Among its related pathways are Glucose / Energy Metabolism and Clathrin derived vesicle budding.	Tethering protein that sequesters GLUT4-containing vesicles in the cytoplasm in the absence of insulin. Modulates the amount of GLUT4 that is available at the cell surface (By similarity). Enhances VCP methylation catalyzed by VCPKMT.	same
ASXL2	ASXL2 is a human homolog of the Drosophila asx gene. Drosophila asx is an enhancer of trithorax (see MIM 159555) and polycomb (see MIM 610231) (ETP) gene that encodes a chromatin protein with dual functions in transcriptional activation and silencing (Katoh and Katoh, 2003 [PubMed 12888926]).[supplied by OMIM, Sep 2009]	ASXL2 (Additional Sex Combs Like Transcriptional Regulator 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include peroxisome proliferator activated receptor binding. An important paralog of this gene is ASXL1.	Putative Polycomb group (PcG) protein. PcG proteins act by forming multiprotein complexes, which are required to maintain the transcriptionally repressive state of homeotic genes throughout development. PcG proteins are not required to initiate repression, but to maintain it during later stages of development. They probably act via methylation of histones, rendering chromatin heritably changed in its expressibility (By similarity). Involved in transcriptional regulation mediated by ligand-bound nuclear hormone receptors, such as peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARG). Acts as coactivator for PPARG and enhances its adipocyte differentiation-inducing activity; the function seems to involve differential recruitment of acetylated and methylated histone H3.	same
ASPRV1	empty	ASPRV1 (Aspartic Peptidase, Retroviral-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include aspartic-type endopeptidase activity.	empty	same
ATAD1	empty	ATAD1 (ATPase Family, AAA Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase activity.	ATPase that plays a critical role in regulating the surface expression of AMPA receptors (AMPAR), thereby regulating synaptic plasticity and learning and memory. Required for NMDA-stimulated AMPAR internalization and inhibition of GRIA1 and GRIA2 recycling back to the plasma membrane; these activities are ATPase-dependent (By similarity).	same
ASXL3	empty	ASXL3 (Additional Sex Combs Like Transcriptional Regulator 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ASXL3 include bainbridge-ropers syndrome and severe feeding difficulties - failure to thrive - microcephaly due to asxl3 deficiency. An important paralog of this gene is ASXL2.	Putative Polycomb group (PcG) protein. PcG proteins act by forming multiprotein complexes, which are required to maintain the transcriptionally repressive state of homeotic genes throughout development. PcG proteins are not required to initiate repression, but to maintain it during later stages of development. They probably act via methylation of histones, rendering chromatin heritably changed in its expressibility (By similarity).	same
ATAD3B	ATAD3A (MIM 612316) and ATAD3B are mitochondrial membrane proteins that contribute to the stabilization of large mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA)-protein complexes called nucleoids (He et al., 2007 [PubMed 17210950]).[supplied by OMIM, Sep 2008]	ATAD3B (ATPase Family, AAA Domain Containing 3B) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleoside-triphosphatase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATAD3A.	May play a role in a mitochondrial network organization typical for stem cells, characterized by reduced mitochondrial metabolism, low mtDNA copies and fragmentated mitochondrial network. may act by suppressing ATAD3A function, interfering with ATAD3A interaction with matrix nucleoid complexes.	same
ATAD5	empty	ATAD5 (ATPase Family, AAA Domain Containing 5) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleoside-triphosphatase activity.	Involved in DNA damage response. Involved in a RAD9A-related damage checkpoint, a pathway that is important in determining whether DNA damage is compatible with cell survival or whether it requires cell elimination by apoptosis. Modulates the RAD9A interaction with BCL2 and thereby induces DNA damages-induced apoptosis.	same
ATF3	This gene encodes a member of the mammalian activation transcription factor/cAMP responsive element-binding (CREB) protein family of transcription factors. This gene is induced by a variety of signals, including many of those encountered by cancer cells, and is involved in the complex process of cellular stress response. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. It is possible that alternative splicing of this gene may be physiologically important in the regulation of target genes. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2011]	ATF3 (Activating Transcription Factor 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATF3 include hypospadias. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and identical protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is JDP2.	This protein binds the cAMP response element (CRE) (consensus: 5-GTGACGT[AC][AG]-3), a sequence present in many viral and cellular promoters. Represses transcription from promoters with ATF sites. It may repress transcription by stabilizing the binding of inhibitory cofactors at the promoter. Isoform 2 activates transcription presumably by sequestering inhibitory cofactors away from the promoters	same
ATF4	This gene encodes a transcription factor that was originally identified as a widely expressed mammalian DNA binding protein that could bind a tax-responsive enhancer element in the LTR of HTLV-1. The encoded protein was also isolated and characterized as the cAMP-response element binding protein 2 (CREB-2). The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a family of DNA-binding proteins that includes the AP-1 family of transcription factors, cAMP-response element binding proteins (CREBs) and CREB-like proteins. These transcription factors share a leucine zipper region that is involved in protein-protein interactions, located C-terminal to a stretch of basic amino acids that functions as a DNA binding domain. Two alternative transcripts encoding the same protein have been described. Two pseudogenes are located on the X chromosome at q28 in a region containing a large inverted duplication. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]	ATF4 (Activating Transcription Factor 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATF4 include coffin-lowry syndrome. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and MAPK signaling pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and protein C-terminus binding. An important paralog of this gene is ATF5.	Transcriptional activator. Binds the cAMP response element (CRE) (consensus: 5-GTGACGT[AC][AG]-3), a sequence present in many viral and cellular promoters. Cooperates with FOXO1 in osteoblasts to regulate glucose homeostasis through suppression of beta-cell production and decrease in insulin production (By similarity). It binds to a Tax-responsive enhancer element in the long terminal repeat of HTLV-I. Regulates the induction of DDIT3/CHOP and asparagine synthetase (ASNS) in response to ER stress. In concert with DDIT3/CHOP, activates the transcription of TRIB3 and promotes ER stress-induced neuronal apoptosis by regulating the transcriptional induction of BBC3/PUMA. Activates transcription of SIRT4. Regulates the circadian expression of the core clock component PER2 and the serotonin transporter SLC6A4. Binds in a circadian time-dependent manner to the cAMP response elements (CRE) in the SLC6A4 and PER2 promoters and periodically activates the transcription of these genes.	same
ATF6B	The protein encoded by this gene is a transcription factor in the unfolded protein response (UPR) pathway during ER stress. Either as a homodimer or as a heterodimer with ATF6-alpha, the encoded protein binds to the ER stress response element, interacting with nuclear transcription factor Y to activate UPR target genes. The protein is normally found in the membrane of the endoplasmic reticulum; however, under ER stress, the N-terminal cytoplasmic domain is cleaved from the rest of the protein and translocates to the nucleus. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]	ATF6B (Activating Transcription Factor 6 Beta) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Amphetamine addiction. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and sequence-specific DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is ATF6.	Transcriptional factor that acts in the unfolded protein response (UPR) pathway by activating UPR target genes induced during ER stress. Binds DNA on the 5-CCAC[GA]-3 half of the ER stress response element (ERSE) (5-CCAATN(9)CCAC[GA]-3) when NF-Y is bound to ERSE	same
ATAD2	A large family of ATPases has been described, whose key feature is that they share a conserved region of about 220 amino acids that contains an ATP-binding site. The proteins that belong to this family either contain one or two AAA (ATPases Associated with diverse cellular Activities) domains. AAA family proteins often perform chaperone-like functions that assist in the assembly, operation, or disassembly of protein complexes. The protein encoded by this gene contains two AAA domains, as well as a bromodomain. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATAD2 (ATPase Family, AAA Domain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATAD2 include gonorrhea and genital herpes. Among its related pathways are Gastric cancer network 2. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATAD2B.	May be a transcriptional coactivator of the nuclear receptor ESR1 required to induce the expression of a subset of estradiol target genes, such as CCND1, MYC and E2F1. May play a role in the recruitment or occupancy of CREBBP at some ESR1 target gene promoters. May be required for histone hyperacetylation. Involved in the estrogen-induced cell proliferation and cell cycle progression of breast cancer cells.	same
ATF7IP2	empty	ATF7IP2 (Activating Transcription Factor 7 Interacting Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ATF7IP.	Recruiter that couples transcriptional factors to general transcription apparatus and thereby modulates transcription regulation and chromatin formation. Can both act as an activator or a repressor depending on the context. Mediates MBD1-dependent transcriptional repression, probably by recruiting complexes containing SETDB1. The complex formed with MBD1 and SETDB1 represses transcription and probably couples DNA methylation and histone H3 Lys-9 trimethylation (H3K9me3) activity (Probable).	same
ATF1	This gene encodes an activating transcription factor, which belongs to the ATF subfamily and bZIP (basic-region leucine zipper) family. It influences cellular physiologic processes by regulating the expression of downstream target genes, which are related to growth, survival, and other cellular activities. This protein is phosphorylated at serine 63 in its kinase-inducible domain by serine/threonine kinases, cAMP-dependent protein kinase A, calmodulin-dependent protein kinase I/II, mitogen- and stress-activated protein kinase and cyclin-dependent kinase 3 (cdk-3). Its phosphorylation enhances its transactivation and transcriptional activities, and enhances cell transformation. Fusion of this gene and FUS on chromosome 16 or EWSR1 on chromosome 22 induced by translocation generates chimeric proteins in angiomatoid fibrous histiocytoma and clear cell sarcoma. This gene has a pseudogene on chromosome 6. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]	ATF1 (Activating Transcription Factor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATF1 include melanoma of soft parts and vulvar melanoma. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and sequence-specific DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is CREM.	This protein binds the cAMP response element (CRE) (consensus: 5-GTGACGT[AC][AG]-3), a sequence present in many viral and cellular promoters. Binds to the Tax-responsive element (TRE) of HTLV-I. Mediates PKA-induced stimulation of CRE-reporter genes. Represses the expression of FTH1 and other antioxidant detoxification genes. Triggers cell proliferation and transformation.	same
ATAD2B	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the AAA ATPase family. This family member includes an N-terminal bromodomain. It has been found to be localized to the nucleus, partly to replication sites, consistent with a chromatin-related function. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]	ATAD2B (ATPase Family, AAA Domain Containing 2B) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleoside-triphosphatase activity and lysine-acetylated histone binding. An important paralog of this gene is ATAD2.	empty	same
ATF7	empty	ATF7 (Activating Transcription Factor 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and transcription factor binding. An important paralog of this gene is ATF2.	Plays important functions in early cell signaling. Binds the cAMP response element (CRE) (consensus: 5-GTGACGT[AG][AG]-3), a sequence present in many viral and cellular promoters. Activator of the NF-ELAM1/delta-A site of the E-selectin promoter. Has no intrinsic transcriptional activity, but activates transcription on formation of JUN or FOS heterodimers. Also can bind TRE promoter sequences when heterodimerized with members of the JUN family	same
ATAD3A	ATAD3A and ATAD3B (MIM 612317) are mitochondrial membrane proteins that contribute to the stabilization of large mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA)-protein complexes called nucleoids (He et al., 2007 [PubMed 17210950]).[supplied by OMIM, Sep 2008]	ATAD3A (ATPase Family, AAA Domain Containing 3A) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleoside-triphosphatase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATAD3C.	Essential for mitochondrial network organization, mitochondrial metabolism and cell growth at organism and cellular level. May play an important in mitochondrial protein synthesis. May also participate in mitochondrial DNA replication. May bind to mitochondrial DNA D-loops and contribute to nucleoid stability. Required for enhanced channeling of cholesterol for hormone-dependent steroidogenesis.	same
ATF5	empty	ATF5 (Activating Transcription Factor 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATF5 include human t-cell leukemia virus type 1. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and transcription corepressor activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATF4.	Transcriptional activator which binds the cAMP response element (CRE) (consensus: 5-GTGACGT[AC][AG]-3), a sequence present in many viral and cellular promoters and blocks the differentiation of neuroprogenitor cells into neurons. Its transcriptional activity is enhanced by CCND3 and slightly inhibited by CDK4.	same
ATF2	This gene encodes a transcription factor that is a member of the leucine zipper family of DNA binding proteins. The encoded protein has been identified as a moonlighting protein based on its ability to perform mechanistically distinct functions This protein binds to the cAMP-responsive element (CRE), an octameric palindrome. It forms a homodimer or a heterodimer with c-Jun and stimulates CRE-dependent transcription. This protein is also a histone acetyltransferase (HAT) that specifically acetylates histones H2B and H4 in vitro; thus it may represent a class of sequence-specific factors that activate transcription by direct effects on chromatin components. The encoded protein may also be involved in cell's DNA damage response independent of its role in transcriptional regulation. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2014]	ATF2 (Activating Transcription Factor 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATF2 include eccrine porocarcinoma. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and MAPK signaling pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and chromatin binding. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000267281.	Transcriptional activator which regulates the transcription of various genes, including those involved in anti-apoptosis, cell growth, and DNA damage response. Dependent on its binding partner, binds to CRE (cAMP response element) consensus sequences (5-TGACGTCA-3) or to AP-1 (activator protein 1) consensus sequences (5-TGACTCA-3). In the nucleus, contributes to global transcription and the DNA damage response, in addition to specific transcriptional activities that are related to cell development, proliferation and death. In the cytoplasm, interacts with and perturbs HK1- and VDAC1-containing complexes at the mitochondrial outer membrane, thereby impairing mitochondrial membrane potential, inducing mitochondrial leakage and promoting cell death. The phosphorylated form (mediated by ATM) plays a role in the DNA damage response and is involved in the ionizing radiation (IR)-induced S phase checkpoint control and in the recruitment of the MRN complex into the IR-induced foci (IRIF). Exhibits histone acetyltransferase (HAT) activity which specifically acetylates histones H2B and H4 in vitro. In concert with CUL3 and RBX1, promotes the degradation of KAT5 thereby attenuating its ability to acetylate and activate ATM. Can elicit oncogenic or tumor suppressor activities depending on the tissue or cell type.	same
ATG12	Autophagy is a process of bulk protein degradation in which cytoplasmic components, including organelles, are enclosed in double-membrane structures called autophagosomes and delivered to lysosomes or vacuoles for degradation. ATG12 is the human homolog of a yeast protein involved in autophagy (Mizushima et al., 1998 [PubMed 9852036]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	ATG12 (Autophagy Related 12) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Protein Stability and FoxO signaling pathway.	Ubiquitin-like protein involved in autophagy vesicles formation. Conjugation with ATG5 through a ubiquitin-like conjugating system involving also ATG7 as an E1-like activating enzyme and ATG10 as an E2-like conjugating enzyme, is essential for its function. The ATG12-ATG5 conjugate acts as an E3-like enzyme which is required for lipidation of ATG8 family proteins and their association to the vesicle membranes. The ATG12-ATG5 conjugate also regulates negatively the innate antiviral immune response by blocking the type I IFN production pathway through direct association with RARRES3 and MAVS. Plays also a role in translation or delivery of incoming viral RNA to the translation apparatus.	same
ATG16L1	The protein encoded by this gene is part of a large protein complex that is necessary for autophagy, the major process by which intracellular components are targeted to lysosomes for degradation. Defects in this gene are a cause of susceptibility to inflammatory bowel disease type 10 (IBD10). Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	ATG16L1 (Autophagy Related 16-Like 1 (S. Cerevisiae)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATG16L1 include inflammatory bowel disease 10 and inflammatory bowel disease. Among its related pathways are Senescence and Autophagy and Regulation of autophagy. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is ATG16L2.	Plays an essential role in autophagy: interacts with ATG12-ATG5 to mediate the conjugation of phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) to LC3 (MAP1LC3A, MAP1LC3B or MAP1LC3C), to produce a membrane-bound activated form of LC3 named LC3-II. Thereby, controls the elongation of the nascent autophagosomal membrane.	same
ATF7IP	ATF7IP is a multifunctional nuclear protein that associates with heterochromatin. It can act as a transcriptional coactivator or corepressor depending upon its binding partners (summary by Liu et al., 2009 [PubMed 19106100]).[supplied by OMIM, Nov 2010]	ATF7IP (Activating Transcription Factor 7 Interacting Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include transcription corepressor activity and ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATF7IP2.	Recruiter that couples transcriptional factors to general transcription apparatus and thereby modulates transcription regulation and chromatin formation. Can both act as an activator or a repressor depending on the context. Mediates MBD1-dependent transcriptional repression, probably by recruiting complexes containing SETDB1. Required to stimulate histone methyltransferase activity of SETDB1 and facilitate the conversion of dimethylated to trimethylated H3 Lys-9 (H3K9me3). The complex formed with MBD1 and SETDB1 represses transcription and couples DNA methylation and histone H3 Lys-9 trimethylation (H3K9me3). Facilitates telomerase TERT and TERC gene expression by SP1 in cancer cells.	same
ATF6	This gene encodes a transcription factor that activates target genes for the unfolded protein response (UPR) during endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. Although it is a transcription factor, this protein is unusual in that it is synthesized as a transmembrane protein that is embedded in the ER. It functions as an ER stress sensor/transducer, and following ER stress-induced proteolysis, it functions as a nuclear transcription factor via a cis-acting ER stress response element (ERSE) that is present in the promoters of genes encoding ER chaperones. This protein has been identified as a survival factor for quiescent but not proliferative squamous carcinoma cells. There have been conflicting reports about the association of polymorphisms in this gene with diabetes in different populations, but another polymorphism has been associated with increased plasma cholesterol levels. This gene is also thought to be a potential therapeutic target for cystic fibrosis. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	ATF6 (Activating Transcription Factor 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATF6 include wolfram syndrome and cystic fibrosis. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and transcription coactivator activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATF6B.	Transcription factor that acts during endoplasmic reticulum stress by activating unfolded protein response target genes. Binds DNA on the 5-CCAC[GA]-3half of the ER stress response element (ERSE) (5-CCAAT-N(9)-CCAC[GA]-3) and of ERSE II (5-ATTGG-N-CCACG-3). Binding to ERSE requires binding of NF-Y to ERSE. Could also be involved in activation of transcription by the serum response factor.	same
ATAD3C	empty	ATAD3C (ATPase Family, AAA Domain Containing 3C) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleoside-triphosphatase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATAD3A.	empty	same
ASZ1	empty	ASZ1 (Ankyrin Repeat, SAM And Basic Leucine Zipper Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include signal transducer activity.	Plays a central role during spermatogenesis by repressing transposable elements and preventing their mobilization, which is essential for the germline integrity. Acts via the piRNA metabolic process, which mediates the repression of transposable elements during meiosis by forming complexes composed of piRNAs and Piwi proteins and governs the methylation and subsequent repression of transposons. Its association with pi-bodies suggests a participation in the primary piRNAs metabolic process. Required prior to the pachytene stage to facilitate the production of multiple types of piRNAs, including those associated with repeats involved in the regulation of retrotransposons. May act by mediating protein-protein interactions during germ cell maturation (By similarity).	same
ATG2B	empty	ATG2B (Autophagy Related 2B) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ATG2A.	Required for both autophagosome formation and regulation of lipid droplet morphology and dispersion.	same
ATG16L2	empty	ATG16L2 (Autophagy Related 16-Like 2 (S. Cerevisiae)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Regulation of autophagy. An important paralog of this gene is ATG16L1.	May play a role in autophagy.	same
ATE1	This gene encodes an arginyltransferase, an enzyme that is involved in posttranslational conjugation of arginine to N-terminal aspartate or glutamate residues. Conjugation of arginine to the N-terminal aspartate or glutamate targets proteins for ubiquitin-dependent degradation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2013]	ATE1 (Arginyltransferase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include arginyltransferase activity.	Involved in the post-translational conjugation of arginine to the N-terminal aspartate or glutamate of a protein. This arginylation is required for degradation of the protein via the ubiquitin pathway. Does not arginylate cysteine residues (By similarity).	same
ATG7	This gene was identified based on homology to Pichia pastoris GSA7 and Saccharomyces cerevisiae APG7. In the yeast, the protein appears to be required for fusion of peroxisomal and vacuolar membranes. The protein shows homology to the ATP-binding and catalytic sites of the E1 ubiquitin activating enzymes. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]	ATG7 (Autophagy Related 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and Atg12 activating enzyme activity.	E1-like activating enzyme involved in the 2 ubiquitin-like systems required for cytoplasm to vacuole transport (Cvt) and autophagy. Activates ATG12 for its conjugation with ATG5 as well as the ATG8 family proteins for their conjugation with phosphatidylethanolamine. Both systems are needed for the ATG8 association to Cvt vesicles and autophagosomes membranes. Required for autophagic death induced by caspase-8 inhibition. Required for mitophagy which contributes to regulate mitochondrial quantity and quality by eliminating the mitochondria to a basal level to fulfill cellular energy requirements and preventing excess ROS production. Modulates p53/TP53 activity to regulate cell cycle and survival during metabolic stress. Plays also a key role in the maintenance of axonal homeostasis, the prevention of axonal degeneration, the maintenance of hematopoietic stem cells, the formation of Paneth cell granules, as well as in adipose differentiation.	same
ATG4B	Autophagy is the process by which endogenous proteins and damaged organelles are destroyed intracellularly. Autophagy is postulated to be essential for cell homeostasis and cell remodeling during differentiation, metamorphosis, non-apoptotic cell death, and aging. Reduced levels of autophagy have been described in some malignant tumors, and a role for autophagy in controlling the unregulated cell growth linked to cancer has been proposed. This gene encodes a member of the autophagin protein family. The encoded protein is also designated as a member of the C-54 family of cysteine proteases. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATG4B (Autophagy Related 4B, Cysteine Peptidase) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Regulation of autophagy. GO annotations related to this gene include cysteine-type peptidase activity and endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATG4C.	Cysteine protease required for the cytoplasm to vacuole transport (Cvt) and autophagy. Cleaves the C-terminal amino acid of ATG8 family proteins MAP1LC3, GABARAPL1, GABARAPL2 and GABARAP, to reveal a C-terminal glycine. Exposure of the glycine at the C-terminus is essential for ATG8 proteins conjugation to phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) and insertion to membranes, which is necessary for autophagy. Has also an activity of delipidating enzyme for the PE-conjugated forms.	same
ATCAY	This gene encodes a neuron-restricted protein that contains a CRAL-TRIO motif common to proteins that bind small lipophilic molecules. Mutations in this gene are associated with cerebellar ataxia, Cayman type. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATCAY (Ataxia, Cerebellar, Cayman Type) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATCAY include ataxia, cerebellar, cayman type and cerebellar ataxia. GO annotations related to this gene include kinesin binding. An important paralog of this gene is PRR5-ARHGAP8.	Functions in the development of neural tissues, particularly the postnatal maturation of the cerebellar cortex. May play a role in neurotransmission through regulation of glutaminase/GLS, an enzyme responsible for the production in neurons of the glutamate neurotransmitter. Alternatively, may regulate the localization of mitochondria within axons and dendrites.	same
ATG10	Autophagy is a process for the bulk degradation of cytosolic compartments by lysosomes. ATG10 is an E2-like enzyme involved in 2 ubiquitin-like modifications essential for autophagosome formation: ATG12 (MIM 609608)-ATG5 (MIM 604261) conjugation and modification of a soluble form of MAP-LC3 (MAP1LC3A; MIM 601242), a homolog of yeast Apg8, to a membrane-bound form (Nemoto et al., 2003 [PubMed 12890687]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	ATG10 (Autophagy Related 10) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Senescence and Autophagy and Regulation of autophagy. GO annotations related to this gene include Atg12 transferase activity.	E2-like enzyme involved in autophagy. Acts as an E2-like enzyme that catalyzes the conjugation of ATG12 to ATG5. ATG12 conjugation to ATG5 is required for autophagy. Likely serves as an ATG5-recognition molecule. Not involved in ATG12 conjugation to ATG3 (By similarity). Plays a role in adenovirus-mediated cell lysis.	same
ATG4D	Autophagy is the process by which endogenous proteins and damaged organelles are destroyed intracellularly. Autophagy is postulated to be essential for cell homeostasis and cell remodeling during differentiation, metamorphosis, non-apoptotic cell death, and aging. Reduced levels of autophagy have been described in some malignant tumors, and a role for autophagy in controlling the unregulated cell growth linked to cancer has been proposed. This gene belongs to the autophagy-related protein 4 (Atg4) family of C54 endopeptidases. Members of this family encode proteins that play a role in the biogenesis of autophagosomes, which sequester the cytosol and organelles for degradation by lysosomes. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]	ATG4D (Autophagy Related 4D, Cysteine Peptidase) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Regulation of autophagy. GO annotations related to this gene include cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATG4B.	Cysteine protease ATG4D: Cysteine protease required for the cytoplasm to vacuole transport (Cvt) and autophagy. Cleaves the C-terminal amino acid of ATG8 family proteins MAP1LC3 and GABARAPL2, to reveal a C-terminal glycine. Exposure of the glycine at the C-terminus is essential for ATG8 proteins conjugation to phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) and insertion to membranes, which is necessary for autophagy. Has also an activity of delipidating enzyme for the PE-conjugated forms	same
ATHL1	empty	ATHL1 (ATH1, Acid Trehalase-Like 1 (Yeast)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrolase activity, acting on glycosyl bonds.	empty	same
ATG9B	This gene functions in the regulation of autophagy, a lysosomal degradation pathway. This gene also functions as an antisense transcript in the posttranscriptional regulation of the endothelial nitric oxide synthase 3 gene, which has 3' overlap with this gene on the opposite strand. Mutations in this gene and disruption of the autophagy process have been associated with multiple cancers. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2012]	ATG9B (Autophagy Related 9B) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ATG9A.	Involved in autophagy and cytoplasm to vacuole transport (Cvt) vesicle formation. Plays a key role in the organization of the preautophagosomal structure/phagophore assembly site (PAS), the nucleating site for formation of the sequestering vesicle (By similarity).	same
ATG9A	empty	ATG9A (Autophagy Related 9A) is a Protein Coding gene.	Involved in autophagy and cytoplasm to vacuole transport (Cvt) vesicle formation. Plays a key role in the organization of the preautophagosomal structure/phagophore assembly site (PAS), the nucleating site for formation of the sequestering vesicle. Cycles between a juxta-nuclear trans-Golgi network compartment and late endosomes. Nutrient starvation induces accumulation on autophagosomes. Starvation-dependent trafficking requires ULK1, ATG13 and SUPT20H.	same
ATL2	empty	ATL2 (Atlastin GTPase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATL2 include spastic paraplegia 3a and spastic paraplegia 3. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and GTPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATL3.	GTPase tethering membranes through formation of trans-homooligomers and mediating homotypic fusion of endoplasmic reticulum membranes. Functions in endoplasmic reticulum tubular network biogenesis.	same
ATG5	empty	ATG5 (Autophagy Related 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Salmonella infection (KEGG) and RIG-I/MDA5 mediated induction of IFN-alpha/beta pathways.	Involved in autophagic vesicle formation. Conjugation with ATG12, through a ubiquitin-like conjugating system involving ATG7 as an E1-like activating enzyme and ATG10 as an E2-like conjugating enzyme, is essential for its function. The ATG12-ATG5 conjugate acts as an E3-like enzyme which is required for lipidation of ATG8 family proteins and their association to the vesicle membranes. Involved in mitochondrial quality control after oxidative damage, and in subsequent cellular longevity. The ATG12-ATG5 conjugate also negatively regulates the innate antiviral immune response by blocking the type I IFN production pathway through direct association with RARRES3 and MAVS. Also plays a role in translation or delivery of incoming viral RNA to the translation apparatus. Plays a critical role in multiple aspects of lymphocyte development and is essential for both B and T lymphocyte survival and proliferation. Required for optimal processing and presentation of antigens for MHC II. Involved in the maintenance of axon morphology and membrane structures, as well as in normal adipocyte differentiation. Promotes primary ciliogenesis through removal of OFD1 from centriolar satellites and degradation of IFT20 via the autophagic pathway	same
ATG2A	empty	ATG2A (Autophagy Related 2A) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ATG2B.	Required for both autophagosome formation and regulation of lipid droplet morphology and dispersion.	same
ATL3	This gene encodes a member of a family of dynamin-like, integral membrane GTPases. The encoded protein is required for the proper formation of the network of interconnected tubules of the endoplasmic reticulum. Mutations in this gene may be associated with hereditary sensory neuropathy type IF. Alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode distinct isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2014]	ATL3 (Atlastin GTPase 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATL3 include neuropathy, hereditary sensory, type if and dnmt1-related dementia, deafness, and sensory neuropathy. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and GTPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATL2.	GTPase tethering membranes through formation of trans-homooligomers and mediating homotypic fusion of endoplasmic reticulum membranes. Functions in endoplasmic reticulum tubular network biogenesis.	same
ATMIN	empty	ATMIN (ATM Interactor) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include transcription regulatory region DNA binding and dynein binding.	Transcription factor. Plays a crucial role in cell survival and RAD51 foci formation in response to methylating DNA damage. Involved in regulating the activity of ATM in the absence of DNA damage. May play a role in stabilizing ATM. Binds to the DYNLL1 promoter and activates its transcription.	same
ATG3	This gene encodes a ubiquitin-like-conjugating enzyme and is a component of ubiquitination-like systems involved in autophagy, the process of degradation, turnover and recycling of cytoplasmic constituents in eukaryotic cells. This protein is known to play a role in regulation of autophagy during cell death. A pseudogene of this gene is located on chromosome 20. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]	ATG3 (Autophagy Related 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Senescence and Autophagy and Regulation of autophagy. GO annotations related to this gene include enzyme binding and Atg12 transferase activity.	E2 conjugating enzyme required for the cytoplasm to vacuole transport (Cvt), autophagy, and mitochondrial homeostasis. Responsible for the E2-like covalent binding of phosphatidylethanolamine to the C-terminal Gly of ATG8-like proteins (GABARAP, GABARAPL1, GABARAPL2 or MAP1LC3A). The ATG12-ATG5 conjugate plays a role of an E3 and promotes the transfer of ATG8-like proteins from ATG3 to phosphatidylethanolamine (PE). This step is required for the membrane association of ATG8-like proteins. The formation of the ATG8-phosphatidylethanolamine conjugates is essential for autophagy and for the cytoplasm to vacuole transport (Cvt). Preferred substrate is MAP1LC3A. Also acts as an autocatalytic E2-like enzyme, catalyzing the conjugation of ATG12 to itself, ATG12 conjugation to ATG3 playing a role in mitochondrial homeostasis but not in autophagy. ATG7 (E1-like enzyme) facilitates this reaction by forming an E1-E2 complex with ATG3. Promotes primary ciliogenesis by removing OFD1 from centriolar satellites via the autophagic pathway.	same
ATN1	Dentatorubral pallidoluysian atrophy (DRPLA) is a rare neurodegenerative disorder characterized by cerebellar ataxia, myoclonic epilepsy, choreoathetosis, and dementia. The disorder is related to the expansion from 7-23 copies to 49-75 copies of a trinucleotide repeat (CAG/CAA) within this gene. The encoded protein includes a serine repeat and a region of alternating acidic and basic amino acids, as well as the variable glutamine repeat. Alternative splicing results in two transcripts variants that encode the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]	ATN1 (Atrophin 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATN1 include dentatorubro-pallidoluysian atrophy and jugular foramen meningioma. GO annotations related to this gene include transcription corepressor activity and toxin receptor binding. An important paralog of this gene is RERE.	Transcriptional corepressor. Recruits NR2E1 to repress transcription. Promotes vascular smooth cell (VSMC) migration and orientation (By similarity). Corepressor of MTG8 transcriptional repression. Has some intrinsic repression activity which is independent of the number of poly-Asn (polyQ) repeats.	same
ATG4C	Autophagy is the process by which endogenous proteins and damaged organelles are destroyed intracellularly. Autophagy is postulated to be essential for cell homeostasis and cell remodeling during differentiation, metamorphosis, non-apoptotic cell death, and aging. Reduced levels of autophagy have been described in some malignant tumors, and a role for autophagy in controlling the unregulated cell growth linked to cancer has been proposed. This gene encodes a member of the autophagin protein family. The encoded protein is also designated as a member of the C-54 family of cysteine proteases. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding the same protein, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATG4C (Autophagy Related 4C, Cysteine Peptidase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATG4C include dependent personality disorder. Among its related pathways are Regulation of autophagy. GO annotations related to this gene include peptidase activity and cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATG4B.	Cysteine protease required for the cytoplasm to vacuole transport (Cvt) and autophagy. Is not essential for autophagy development under normal conditions but is required for a proper autophagic response under stressful conditions such as prolonged starvation (By similarity). Cleaves the C-terminal amino acid of ATG8 family proteins MAP1LC3 and GABARAPL2, to reveal a C-terminal glycine. Exposure of the glycine at the C-terminus is essential for ATG8 proteins conjugation to phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) and insertion to membranes, which is necessary for autophagy. Has also an activity of delipidating enzyme for the PE-conjugated forms.	same
ATOH8	empty	ATOH8 (Atonal Homolog 8 (Drosophila)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein dimerization activity.	Putative transcription factor. May be implicated in specification and differentiation of neuronal cell lineages in the brain. May participate in kidney development and may be involved in podocyte differentiation (By similarity).	same
ATIC	This gene encodes a bifunctional protein that catalyzes the last two steps of the de novo purine biosynthetic pathway. The N-terminal domain has phosphoribosylaminoimidazolecarboxamide formyltransferase activity, and the C-terminal domain has IMP cyclohydrolase activity. A mutation in this gene results in AICA-ribosiduria. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]	ATIC (5-Aminoimidazole-4-Carboxamide Ribonucleotide Formyltransferase/IMP Cyclohydrolase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATIC include aica-ribosiduria due to atic deficiency and aica-ribosiduria. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and phosphoribosylaminoimidazolecarboxamide formyltransferase activity.	Bifunctional enzyme that catalyzes 2 steps in purine biosynthesis.	same
ATL1	The protein encoded by this gene is a GTPase and a Golgi body transmembrane protein. The encoded protein can form a homotetramer and has been shown to interact with spastin and with mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase kinase 4. This protein may be involved in axonal maintenance as evidenced by the fact that defects in this gene are a cause of spastic paraplegia type 3. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATL1 (Atlastin GTPase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATL1 include neuropathy, hereditary sensory, type id and spastic paraplegia 3a, autosomal dominant. Among its related pathways are Cytoskeletal Signaling and Interferon Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and GTPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATL2.	GTPase tethering membranes through formation of trans-homooligomers and mediating homotypic fusion of endoplasmic reticulum membranes. Functions in endoplasmic reticulum tubular network biogenesis. May also regulate Golgi biogenesis. May regulate axonal development.	same
ATP10A	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of P-type cation transport ATPases, and to the subfamily of aminophospholipid-transporting ATPases. The aminophospholipid translocases transport phosphatidylserine and phosphatidylethanolamine from one side of a bilayer to another. This gene is maternally expressed. It maps within the most common interval of deletion responsible for Angelman syndrome, also known as 'happy puppet syndrome'. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATP10A (ATPase, Class V, Type 10A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP10A include angelman syndrome. Among its related pathways are Ion channel transport and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include magnesium ion binding and phospholipid-translocating ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP10D.	Catalytic component of a P4-ATPase flippase complex which catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled to the transport of aminophospholipids from the outer to the inner leaflet of various membranes and ensures the maintenance of asymmetric distribution of phospholipids. Phospholipid translocation seems also to be implicated in vesicle formation and in uptake of lipid signaling molecules (Probable).	same
ATP11A	The protein encoded by this gene is an integral membrane ATPase. The encoded protein is probably phosphorylated in its intermediate state and likely drives the transport of ions such as calcium across membranes. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATP11A (ATPase, Class VI, Type 11A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP11A include pulmonary fibrosis, idiopathic. Among its related pathways are Ion channel transport and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include magnesium ion binding and phospholipid-translocating ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP8B4.	Catalytic component of a P4-ATPase flippase complex which catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled to the transport of aminophospholipids from the outer to the inner leaflet of various membranes and ensures the maintenance of asymmetric distribution of phospholipids. Phospholipid translocation seems also to be implicated in vesicle formation and in uptake of lipid signaling molecules (Probable). May be involved in the uptake of farnesyltransferase inhibitor drugs, such as lonafarnib.	same
ATP10D	empty	ATP10D (ATPase, Class V, Type 10D) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Ion channel transport and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include magnesium ion binding and phospholipid-translocating ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP10A.	Catalytic component of a P4-ATPase flippase complex which catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled to the transport of aminophospholipids from the outer to the inner leaflet of various membranes and ensures the maintenance of asymmetric distribution of phospholipids. Phospholipid translocation seems also to be implicated in vesicle formation and in uptake of lipid signaling molecules (Probable).	same
ATP13A2	This gene encodes a member of the P5 subfamily of ATPases which transports inorganic cations as well as other substrates. Mutations in this gene are associated with Kufor-Rakeb syndrome (KRS), also referred to as Parkinson disease 9. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]	ATP13A2 (ATPase Type 13A2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP13A2 include kufor-rakeb syndrome and parkinson disease type 9. Among its related pathways are Neuroscience. GO annotations related to this gene include cation-transporting ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP13A3.	May play a role in intracellular cation homeostasis and the maintenance of neuronal integrity.	same
ATP13A1	empty	ATP13A1 (ATPase Type 13A1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include cation-transporting ATPase activity.	Mediates manganese transport into the endoplasmic reticulum. The ATPase activity is required for cellular manganese homeostasis.	same
ATP11C	empty	ATP11C (ATPase, Class VI, Type 11C) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Ion channel transport and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include magnesium ion binding and phospholipid-translocating ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP8B4.	Catalytic component of a P4-ATPase flippase complex which catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled to the transport of aminophospholipids from the outer to the inner leaflet of various membranes and ensures the maintenance of asymmetric distribution of phospholipids. Phospholipid translocation seems also to be implicated in vesicle formation and in uptake of lipid signaling molecules. Required for B cell differentiation past the pro-B cell stage. Seems to mediate phosphatidylserine (PS) flipping in pro-B cells. May be involved in the transport of cholestatic bile acids (By similarity).	same
ATP12A	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of P-type cation transport ATPases. This gene encodes a catalytic subunit of the ouabain-sensitive H+/K+ -ATPase that catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled with the exchange of H(+) and K(+) ions across the plasma membrane. It is also responsible for potassium absorption in various tissues. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	ATP12A (ATPase, H+/K+ Transporting, Nongastric, Alpha Polypeptide) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP12A include dyskinesia of esophagus and hiatus hernia. Among its related pathways are Ion channel transport and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrogen:potassium-exchanging ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP4A.	Catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled with the exchange of H(+) and K(+) ions across the plasma membrane. Responsible for potassium absorption in various tissues	same
ATP13A5	empty	ATP13A5 (ATPase Type 13A5) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include cation-transporting ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP13A2.	empty	same
ATOX1	This gene encodes a copper chaperone that plays a role in copper homeostasis by binding and transporting cytosolic copper to ATPase proteins in the trans-Golgi network for later incorporation to the ceruloplasmin. This protein also functions as an antioxidant against superoxide and hydrogen peroxide, and therefore, may play a significant role in cancer carcinogenesis. Because of its cytogenetic location, this gene represents a candidate gene for 5q-syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATOX1 (Antioxidant 1 Copper Chaperone) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cellular Senescence and Mineral absorption. GO annotations related to this gene include copper ion binding and copper chaperone activity.	Binds and deliver cytosolic copper to the copper ATPase proteins. May be important in cellular antioxidant defense	same
ATP13A3	ATP13A3 is a member of the P-type ATPase family of proteins that transport a variety of cations across membranes. Other P-type ATPases include ATP7B (MIM 606882) and ATP7A (MIM 300011).[supplied by OMIM, Aug 2008]	ATP13A3 (ATPase Type 13A3) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include cation-transporting ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP13A2.	empty	same
ATG4A	Autophagy is the process by which endogenous proteins and damaged organelles are destroyed intracellularly. Autophagy is postulated to be essential for cell homeostasis and cell remodeling during differentiation, metamorphosis, non-apoptotic cell death, and aging. Reduced levels of autophagy have been described in some malignant tumors, and a role for autophagy in controlling the unregulated cell growth linked to cancer has been proposed. This gene encodes a member of the autophagin protein family. The encoded protein is also designated as a member of the C-54 family of cysteine proteases. Transcript variants that encode distinct isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATG4A (Autophagy Related 4A, Cysteine Peptidase) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Regulation of autophagy. GO annotations related to this gene include cysteine-type peptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATG4B.	Cysteine protease required for the cytoplasm to vacuole transport (Cvt) and autophagy. Cleaves the C-terminal amino acid of ATG8 family proteins to reveal a C-terminal glycine. Exposure of the glycine at the C-terminus is essential for ATG8 proteins conjugation to phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) and insertion to membranes, which is necessary for autophagy. Preferred substrate is GABARAPL2 followed by MAP1LC3A and GABARAP. Has also an activity of delipidating enzyme for the PE-conjugated forms.	same
ATP1A1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of P-type cation transport ATPases, and to the subfamily of Na+/K+ -ATPases. Na+/K+ -ATPase is an integral membrane protein responsible for establishing and maintaining the electrochemical gradients of Na and K ions across the plasma membrane. These gradients are essential for osmoregulation, for sodium-coupled transport of a variety of organic and inorganic molecules, and for electrical excitability of nerve and muscle. This enzyme is composed of two subunits, a large catalytic subunit (alpha) and a smaller glycoprotein subunit (beta). The catalytic subunit of Na+/K+ -ATPase is encoded by multiple genes. This gene encodes an alpha 1 subunit. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2009]	ATP1A1 (ATPase, Na+/K+ Transporting, Alpha 1 Polypeptide) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP1A1 include thyrotoxic periodic paralysis. Among its related pathways are Cytoskeletal Signaling and Diuretics Pathway, Pharmacodynamics. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and chaperone binding. An important paralog of this gene is ATP4A.	This is the catalytic component of the active enzyme, which catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled with the exchange of sodium and potassium ions across the plasma membrane. This action creates the electrochemical gradient of sodium and potassium ions, providing the energy for active transport of various nutrients	same
ATM	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the PI3/PI4-kinase family. This protein is an important cell cycle checkpoint kinase that phosphorylates; thus, it functions as a regulator of a wide variety of downstream proteins, including tumor suppressor proteins p53 and BRCA1, checkpoint kinase CHK2, checkpoint proteins RAD17 and RAD9, and DNA repair protein NBS1. This protein and the closely related kinase ATR are thought to be master controllers of cell cycle checkpoint signaling pathways that are required for cell response to DNA damage and for genome stability. Mutations in this gene are associated with ataxia telangiectasia, an autosomal recessive disorder. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]	ATM (ATM Serine/Threonine Kinase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATM include chronic lymphocytic leukemia and ataxia-telangiectasia. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and Apoptotic Pathways in Synovial Fibroblasts. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and protein complex binding.	Serine/threonine protein kinase which activates checkpoint signaling upon double strand breaks (DSBs), apoptosis and genotoxic stresses such as ionizing ultraviolet A light (UVA), thereby acting as a DNA damage sensor. Recognizes the substrate consensus sequence [ST]-Q. Phosphorylates Ser-139 of histone variant H2AX/H2AFX at double strand breaks (DSBs), thereby regulating DNA damage response mechanism. Also plays a role in pre-B cell allelic exclusion, a process leading to expression of a single immunoglobulin heavy chain allele to enforce clonality and monospecific recognition by the B-cell antigen receptor (BCR) expressed on individual B-lymphocytes. After the introduction of DNA breaks by the RAG complex on one immunoglobulin allele, acts by mediating a repositioning of the second allele to pericentromeric heterochromatin, preventing accessibility to the RAG complex and recombination of the second allele. Also involved in signal transduction and cell cycle control. May function as a tumor suppressor. Necessary for activation of ABL1 and SAPK. Phosphorylates DYRK2, CHEK2, p53/TP53, FANCD2, NFKBIA, BRCA1, CTIP, nibrin (NBN), TERF1, RAD9 and DCLRE1C. May play a role in vesicle and/or protein transport. Could play a role in T-cell development, gonad and neurological function. Plays a role in replication-dependent histone mRNA degradation. Binds DNA ends. Phosphorylation of DYRK2 in nucleus in response to genotoxic stress prevents its MDM2-mediated ubiquitination and subsequent proteasome degradation. Phosphorylates ATF2 which stimulates its function in DNA damage response.	same
ATP1A4	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of P-type cation transport ATPases, and to the subfamily of Na+/K+ -ATPases. Na+/K+ -ATPase is an integral membrane protein responsible for establishing and maintaining the electrochemical gradients of Na and K ions across the plasma membrane. These gradients are essential for osmoregulation, for sodium-coupled transport of a variety of organic and inorganic molecules, and for electrical excitability of nerve and muscle. This enzyme is composed of two subunits, a large catalytic subunit (alpha) and a smaller glycoprotein subunit (beta). The catalytic subunit of Na+/K+ -ATPase is encoded by multiple genes. This gene encodes an alpha 4 subunit. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATP1A4 (ATPase, Na+/K+ Transporting, Alpha 4 Polypeptide) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cytoskeletal Signaling and Diuretics Pathway, Pharmacodynamics. GO annotations related to this gene include sodium:potassium-exchanging ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP4A.	This is the catalytic component of the active enzyme, which catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled with the exchange of sodium and potassium ions across the plasma membrane. This action creates the electrochemical gradient of sodium and potassium ions, providing the energy for active transport of various nutrients. Plays a role in sperm motility	same
ATP10B	empty	ATP10B (ATPase, Class V, Type 10B) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Ion channel transport and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include magnesium ion binding and phospholipid-translocating ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP10A.	Catalytic component of a P4-ATPase flippase complex which catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled to the transport of aminophospholipids from the outer to the inner leaflet of various membranes and ensures the maintenance of asymmetric distribution of phospholipids. Phospholipid translocation seems also to be implicated in vesicle formation and in uptake of lipid signaling molecules (Probable).	same
ATOH1	This protein belongs to the basic helix-loop-helix (BHLH) family of transcription factors. It activates E-box dependent transcription along with E47. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATOH1 (Atonal Homolog 1 (Drosophila)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATOH1 include goblet cell carcinoid and cerebellar liponeurocytoma. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and protein dimerization activity. An important paralog of this gene is BHLHA15.	Transcriptional regulator. Activates E box-dependent transcription in collaboration with TCF3/E47, but the activity is completely antagonized by the negative regulator of neurogenesis HES1. Plays a role in the differentiation of subsets of neural cells by activating E box-dependent transcription (By similarity).	same
ATP1B2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of Na+/K+ and H+/K+ ATPases beta chain proteins, and to the subfamily of Na+/K+ -ATPases. Na+/K+ -ATPase is an integral membrane protein responsible for establishing and maintaining the electrochemical gradients of Na and K ions across the plasma membrane. These gradients are essential for osmoregulation, for sodium-coupled transport of a variety of organic and inorganic molecules, and for electrical excitability of nerve and muscle. This enzyme is composed of two subunits, a large catalytic subunit (alpha) and a smaller glycoprotein subunit (beta). The beta subunit regulates, through assembly of alpha/beta heterodimers, the number of sodium pumps transported to the plasma membrane. The glycoprotein subunit of Na+/K+ -ATPase is encoded by multiple genes. This gene encodes a beta 2 subunit. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2014]	ATP1B2 (ATPase, Na+/K+ Transporting, Beta 2 Polypeptide) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP1B2 include x-linked juvenile retinoschisis and juvenile retinoschisis. Among its related pathways are Hemostasis and Myometrial Relaxation and Contraction Pathways. GO annotations related to this gene include sodium:potassium-exchanging ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP1B3.	This is the non-catalytic component of the active enzyme, which catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled with the exchange of Na(+) and K(+) ions across the plasma membrane. The exact function of the beta-2 subunit is not known	same
ATP1A3	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of P-type cation transport ATPases, and to the subfamily of Na+/K+ -ATPases. Na+/K+ -ATPase is an integral membrane protein responsible for establishing and maintaining the electrochemical gradients of Na and K ions across the plasma membrane. These gradients are essential for osmoregulation, for sodium-coupled transport of a variety of organic and inorganic molecules, and for electrical excitability of nerve and muscle. This enzyme is composed of two subunits, a large catalytic subunit (alpha) and a smaller glycoprotein subunit (beta). The catalytic subunit of Na+/K+ -ATPase is encoded by multiple genes. This gene encodes an alpha 3 subunit. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]	ATP1A3 (ATPase, Na+/K+ Transporting, Alpha 3 Polypeptide) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP1A3 include alternating hemiplegia of childhood 2 and dystonia-12. Among its related pathways are SIDS Susceptibility Pathways and Neuropathic Pain-Signaling in Dorsal Horn Neurons. GO annotations related to this gene include sodium:potassium-exchanging ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP4A.	This is the catalytic component of the active enzyme, which catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled with the exchange of sodium and potassium ions across the plasma membrane. This action creates the electrochemical gradient of sodium and potassium ions, providing the energy for active transport of various nutrients	same
ATP1B3	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of Na+/K+ and H+/K+ ATPases beta chain proteins, and to the subfamily of Na+/K+ -ATPases. Na+/K+ -ATPase is an integral membrane protein responsible for establishing and maintaining the electrochemical gradients of Na and K ions across the plasma membrane. These gradients are essential for osmoregulation, for sodium-coupled transport of a variety of organic and inorganic molecules, and for electrical excitability of nerve and muscle. This enzyme is composed of two subunits, a large catalytic subunit (alpha) and a smaller glycoprotein subunit (beta). The beta subunit regulates, through assembly of alpha/beta heterodimers, the number of sodium pumps transported to the plasma membrane. The glycoprotein subunit of Na+/K+ -ATPase is encoded by multiple genes. This gene encodes a beta 3 subunit. This gene encodes a beta 3 subunit. A pseudogene exists for this gene, and it is located on chromosome 2. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATP1B3 (ATPase, Na+/K+ Transporting, Beta 3 Polypeptide) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Hemostasis and Myometrial Relaxation and Contraction Pathways. GO annotations related to this gene include sodium:potassium-exchanging ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP1B4.	This is the non-catalytic component of the active enzyme, which catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled with the exchange of Na(+) and K(+) ions across the plasma membrane. The exact function of the beta-3 subunit is not known	same
ATOH7	This intronless gene encodes a member of the basic helix-loop-helix family of transcription factors, with similarity to Drosophila atonal gene that controls photoreceptor development. Studies in mice suggest that this gene plays a central role in retinal ganglion cell and optic nerve formation. Mutations in this gene are associated with nonsyndromic congenital retinal nonattachment. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	ATOH7 (Atonal Homolog 7 (Drosophila)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATOH7 include persistent hyperplastic primary vitreous, autosomal recessive and persistent hyperplastic primary vitreous. GO annotations related to this gene include protein dimerization activity. An important paralog of this gene is BHLHA15.	Transcription factor involved in the differentiation of retinal ganglion cells.	same
ATP2B2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of P-type primary ion transport ATPases characterized by the formation of an aspartyl phosphate intermediate during the reaction cycle. These enzymes remove bivalent calcium ions from eukaryotic cells against very large concentration gradients and play a critical role in intracellular calcium homeostasis. The mammalian plasma membrane calcium ATPase isoforms are encoded by at least four separate genes and the diversity of these enzymes is further increased by alternative splicing of transcripts. The expression of different isoforms and splice variants is regulated in a developmental, tissue- and cell type-specific manner, suggesting that these pumps are functionally adapted to the physiological needs of particular cells and tissues. This gene encodes the plasma membrane calcium ATPase isoform 2. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATP2B2 (ATPase, Ca++ Transporting, Plasma Membrane 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP2B2 include deafness, autosomal recessive 12. Among its related pathways are CREB Pathway and Platelet homeostasis. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and protein C-terminus binding. An important paralog of this gene is ATP2B3.	This magnesium-dependent enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled with the transport of calcium out of the cell	same
ATP2B3	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of P-type primary ion transport ATPases characterized by the formation of an aspartyl phosphate intermediate during the reaction cycle. These enzymes remove bivalent calcium ions from eukaryotic cells against very large concentration gradients and play a critical role in intracellular calcium homeostasis. The mammalian plasma membrane calcium ATPase isoforms are encoded by at least four separate genes and the diversity of these enzymes is further increased by alternative splicing of transcripts. The expression of different isoforms and splice variants is regulated in a developmental, tissue- and cell type-specific manner, suggesting that these pumps are functionally adapted to the physiological needs of particular cells and tissues. This gene encodes the plasma membrane calcium ATPase isoform 3. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATP2B3 (ATPase, Ca++ Transporting, Plasma Membrane 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP2B3 include spinocerebellar ataxia, x-linked 1 and x-linked progressive cerebellar ataxia. Among its related pathways are CREB Pathway and Platelet homeostasis. GO annotations related to this gene include calmodulin binding and calcium-transporting ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP2B1.	This magnesium-dependent enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled with the transport of calcium out of the cell	same
ATP2C2	empty	ATP2C2 (ATPase, Ca++ Transporting, Type 2C, Member 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP2C2 include hailey-hailey disease. Among its related pathways are Ion channel transport and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium-transporting ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP2A2.	This magnesium-dependent enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled with the transport of calcium.	same
ATP2A3	This gene encodes one of the SERCA Ca(2+)-ATPases, which are intracellular pumps located in the sarcoplasmic or endoplasmic reticula of muscle cells. This enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled with the translocation of calcium from the cytosol to the sarcoplasmic reticulum lumen, and is involved in calcium sequestration associated with muscular excitation and contraction. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATP2A3 (ATPase, Ca++ Transporting, Ubiquitous) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP2A3 include darier disease. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and CREB Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium-transporting ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP2A2.	This magnesium-dependent enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled with the transport of calcium. Transports calcium ions from the cytosol into the sarcoplasmic/endoplasmic reticulum lumen. Contributes to calcium sequestration involved in muscular excitation/contraction.	same
ATP1B4	This gene has been found in all vertebrate genomes sequenced to date. However, this gene has undergone a change in function in placental mammals compared to other species. Specifically, in fish, avian, and amphibian species, this gene encodes plasma membrane-bound beta-subunits of Na,K-ATPase. In placental mammals, the encoded protein interacts with the nuclear transcriptional coregulator SKIP and may be involved in the regulation of TGF-beta signaling. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]	ATP1B4 (ATPase, Na+/K+ Transporting, Beta 4 Polypeptide) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP1B4 include thyrotoxic periodic paralysis. Among its related pathways are Neuropathic Pain-Signaling in Dorsal Horn Neurons and Salivary secretion. GO annotations related to this gene include monovalent inorganic cation transmembrane transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP1B3.	May act as a transcriptional coregulator during muscle development through its interaction with SNW1. Has lost its ancestral function as a Na,K-ATPase beta-subunit.	same
ATP1A2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of P-type cation transport ATPases, and to the subfamily of Na+/K+ -ATPases. Na+/K+ -ATPase is an integral membrane protein responsible for establishing and maintaining the electrochemical gradients of Na and K ions across the plasma membrane. These gradients are essential for osmoregulation, for sodium-coupled transport of a variety of organic and inorganic molecules, and for electrical excitability of nerve and muscle. This enzyme is composed of two subunits, a large catalytic subunit (alpha) and a smaller glycoprotein subunit (beta). The catalytic subunit of Na+/K+ -ATPase is encoded by multiple genes. This gene encodes an alpha 2 subunit. Mutations in this gene result in familial basilar or hemiplegic migraines, and in a rare syndrome known as alternating hemiplegia of childhood. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]	ATP1A2 (ATPase, Na+/K+ Transporting, Alpha 2 Polypeptide) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP1A2 include migraine, familial hemiplegic, 2 and alternating hemiplegia of childhood. Among its related pathways are Neuropathic Pain-Signaling in Dorsal Horn Neurons and Ion channel transport. GO annotations related to this gene include sodium:potassium-exchanging ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP4A.	This is the catalytic component of the active enzyme, which catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled with the exchange of sodium and potassium ions across the plasma membrane. This action creates the electrochemical gradient of sodium and potassium, providing the energy for active transport of various nutrients	same
ATP13A4	empty	ATP13A4 (ATPase Type 13A4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP13A4 include benign epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes. GO annotations related to this gene include cation-transporting ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP13A2.	empty	same
ATP2B4	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of P-type primary ion transport ATPases characterized by the formation of an aspartyl phosphate intermediate during the reaction cycle. These enzymes remove bivalent calcium ions from eukaryotic cells against very large concentration gradients and play a critical role in intracellular calcium homeostasis. The mammalian plasma membrane calcium ATPase isoforms are encoded by at least four separate genes and the diversity of these enzymes is further increased by alternative splicing of transcripts. The expression of different isoforms and splice variants is regulated in a developmental, tissue- and cell type-specific manner, suggesting that these pumps are functionally adapted to the physiological needs of particular cells and tissues. This gene encodes the plasma membrane calcium ATPase isoform 4. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATP2B4 (ATPase, Ca++ Transporting, Plasma Membrane 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are CREB Pathway and Platelet homeostasis. GO annotations related to this gene include calmodulin binding and sodium channel regulator activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP2B3.	This magnesium-dependent enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled with the transport of calcium out of the cell	same
ATP2A1	This gene encodes one of the SERCA Ca(2+)-ATPases, which are intracellular pumps located in the sarcoplasmic or endoplasmic reticula of muscle cells. This enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled with the translocation of calcium from the cytosol to the sarcoplasmic reticulum lumen, and is involved in muscular excitation and contraction. Mutations in this gene cause some autosomal recessive forms of Brody disease, characterized by increasing impairment of muscular relaxation during exercise. Alternative splicing results in three transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2013]	ATP2A1 (ATPase, Ca++ Transporting, Cardiac Muscle, Fast Twitch 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP2A1 include brody myopathy and pseudomyotonia. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and CREB Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and calcium-transporting ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP2A2.	Key regulator of striated muscle performance by acting as the major Ca(2+) ATPase responsible for the reuptake of cytosolic Ca(2+) into the sarcoplasmic reticulum. Catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled with the translocation of calcium from the cytosol to the sarcoplasmic reticulum lumen. Contributes to calcium sequestration involved in muscular excitation/contraction	same
ATP4A	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a family of P-type cation-transporting ATPases. The gastric H+, K+-ATPase is a heterodimer consisting of a high molecular weight catalytic alpha subunit and a smaller but heavily glycosylated beta subunit. This enzyme is a proton pump that catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled with the exchange of H(+) and K(+) ions across the plasma membrane. It is also responsible for gastric acid secretion. This gene encodes a catalytic alpha subunit of the gastric H+, K+-ATPase. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATP4A (ATPase, H+/K+ Exchanging, Alpha Polypeptide) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP4A include dyskinesia of esophagus and gastric outlet obstruction. Among its related pathways are Ion channel transport and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include protein heterodimerization activity and hydrogen:potassium-exchanging ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP1A3.	Catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled with the exchange of H(+) and K(+) ions across the plasma membrane. Responsible for acid production in the stomach	same
ATP2A2	This gene encodes one of the SERCA Ca(2+)-ATPases, which are intracellular pumps located in the sarcoplasmic or endoplasmic reticula of muscle cells. This enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled with the translocation of calcium from the cytosol into the sarcoplasmic reticulum lumen, and is involved in regulation of the contraction/relaxation cycle. Mutations in this gene cause Darier-White disease, also known as keratosis follicularis, an autosomal dominant skin disorder characterized by loss of adhesion between epidermal cells and abnormal keratinization. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]	ATP2A2 (ATPase, Ca++ Transporting, Cardiac Muscle, Slow Twitch 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP2A2 include acrokeratosis verruciformis and darier disease. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and CREB Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include enzyme binding and calcium-transporting ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP2A1.	This magnesium-dependent enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled with the translocation of calcium from the cytosol to the sarcoplasmic reticulum lumen. Isoform 2 is involved in the regulation of the contraction/relaxation cycle.	same
ATP2C1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of P-type cation transport ATPases. This magnesium-dependent enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled with the transport of calcium ions. Defects in this gene cause Hailey-Hailey disease, an autosomal dominant disorder. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	ATP2C1 (ATPase, Ca++ Transporting, Type 2C, Member 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP2C1 include hailey-hailey disease and pemphigus. Among its related pathways are CREB Pathway and CREB Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and manganese ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is ATP2A2.	This magnesium-dependent enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled with the transport of the calcium	same
ATP1B1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of Na+/K+ and H+/K+ ATPases beta chain proteins, and to the subfamily of Na+/K+ -ATPases. Na+/K+ -ATPase is an integral membrane protein responsible for establishing and maintaining the electrochemical gradients of Na and K ions across the plasma membrane. These gradients are essential for osmoregulation, for sodium-coupled transport of a variety of organic and inorganic molecules, and for electrical excitability of nerve and muscle. This enzyme is composed of two subunits, a large catalytic subunit (alpha) and a smaller glycoprotein subunit (beta). The beta subunit regulates, through assembly of alpha/beta heterodimers, the number of sodium pumps transported to the plasma membrane. The glycoprotein subunit of Na+/K+ -ATPase is encoded by multiple genes. This gene encodes a beta 1 subunit. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described, but their biological validity is not known. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]	ATP1B1 (ATPase, Na+/K+ Transporting, Beta 1 Polypeptide) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP1B1 include megalencephalic leukoencephalopathy with subcortical cysts and thyrotoxic periodic paralysis. Among its related pathways are Hemostasis and Myometrial Relaxation and Contraction Pathways. GO annotations related to this gene include sodium:potassium-exchanging ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP1B3.	This is the non-catalytic component of the active enzyme, which catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled with the exchange of Na(+) and K(+) ions across the plasma membrane. The beta subunit regulates, through assembly of alpha/beta heterodimers, the number of sodium pumps transported to the plasma membrane.	same
ATP5A1	This gene encodes a subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase. Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, using an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosphorylation. ATP synthase is composed of two linked multi-subunit complexes: the soluble catalytic core, F1, and the membrane-spanning component, Fo, comprising the proton channel. The catalytic portion of mitochondrial ATP synthase consists of 5 different subunits (alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon) assembled with a stoichiometry of 3 alpha, 3 beta, and a single representative of the other 3. The proton channel consists of three main subunits (a, b, c). This gene encodes the alpha subunit of the catalytic core. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the different isoforms have been identified. Pseudogenes of this gene are located on chromosomes 9, 2, and 16. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]	ATP5A1 (ATP Synthase, H+ Transporting, Mitochondrial F1 Complex, Alpha Subunit 1, Cardiac Muscle) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP5A1 include combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency 22 and mitochondrial complex deficiency, nuclear type 4. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase activity and proton-transporting ATPase activity, rotational mechanism.	Mitochondrial membrane ATP synthase (F(1)F(0) ATP synthase or Complex V) produces ATP from ADP in the presence of a proton gradient across the membrane which is generated by electron transport complexes of the respiratory chain. F-type ATPases consist of two structural domains, F(1) - containing the extramembraneous catalytic core, and F(0) - containing the membrane proton channel, linked together by a central stalk and a peripheral stalk. During catalysis, ATP synthesis in the catalytic domain of F(1) is coupled via a rotary mechanism of the central stalk subunits to proton translocation. Subunits alpha and beta form the catalytic core in F(1). Rotation of the central stalk against the surrounding alpha(3)beta(3) subunits leads to hydrolysis of ATP in three separate catalytic sites on the beta subunits. Subunit alpha does not bear the catalytic high-affinity ATP-binding sites (By similarity).	same
ATP11B	P-type ATPases, such as ATP11B, are phosphorylated in their intermediate state and drive uphill transport of ions across membranes. Several subfamilies of P-type ATPases have been identified. One subfamily transports heavy metal ions, such as Cu(2+) or Cd(2+). Another subfamily transports non-heavy metal ions, such as H(+), Na(+), K(+), or Ca(+). A third subfamily transports amphipaths, such as phosphatidylserine.[supplied by OMIM, Feb 2005]	ATP11B (ATPase, Class VI, Type 11B) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Ion channel transport and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include magnesium ion binding and phospholipid-translocating ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP8B4.	Catalytic component of a P4-ATPase flippase complex which catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled to the transport of aminophospholipids from the outer to the inner leaflet of various membranes and ensures the maintenance of asymmetric distribution of phospholipids. Phospholipid translocation seems also to be implicated in vesicle formation and in uptake of lipid signaling molecules (Probable). Involved in regulation of sensitivity to cisplatin; may contribute to secretory vesicle transport of cisplatin from Golgi to plasma membrane.	same
ATP2B1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of P-type primary ion transport ATPases characterized by the formation of an aspartyl phosphate intermediate during the reaction cycle. These enzymes remove bivalent calcium ions from eukaryotic cells against very large concentration gradients and play a critical role in intracellular calcium homeostasis. The mammalian plasma membrane calcium ATPase isoforms are encoded by at least four separate genes and the diversity of these enzymes is further increased by alternative splicing of transcripts. The expression of different isoforms and splice variants is regulated in a developmental, tissue- and cell type-specific manner, suggesting that these pumps are functionally adapted to the physiological needs of particular cells and tissues. This gene encodes the plasma membrane calcium ATPase isoform 1. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATP2B1 (ATPase, Ca++ Transporting, Plasma Membrane 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are CREB Pathway and Platelet homeostasis. GO annotations related to this gene include calmodulin binding and calcium-transporting ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP2B3.	This magnesium-dependent enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled with the transport of calcium out of the cell	same
ATP5G1	This gene encodes a subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase. Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosphorylation. ATP synthase is composed of two linked multi-subunit complexes: the soluble catalytic core, F1, and the membrane-spanning component, Fo, comprising the proton channel. The catalytic portion of mitochondrial ATP synthase consists of 5 different subunits (alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon) assembled with a stoichiometry of 3 alpha, 3 beta, and a single representative of the other 3. The proton channel seems to have nine subunits (a, b, c, d, e, f, g, F6 and 8). This gene is one of three genes that encode subunit c of the proton channel. Each of the three genes have distinct mitochondrial import sequences but encode the identical mature protein. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATP5G1 (ATP Synthase, H+ Transporting, Mitochondrial Fo Complex, Subunit C1 (Subunit 9)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP5G1 include spindle cell hemangioma. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity and hydrogen ion transmembrane transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP5G3.	Mitochondrial membrane ATP synthase (F(1)F(0) ATP synthase or Complex V) produces ATP from ADP in the presence of a proton gradient across the membrane which is generated by electron transport complexes of the respiratory chain. F-type ATPases consist of two structural domains, F(1) - containing the extramembraneous catalytic core and F(0) - containing the membrane proton channel, linked together by a central stalk and a peripheral stalk. During catalysis, ATP synthesis in the catalytic domain of F(1) is coupled via a rotary mechanism of the central stalk subunits to proton translocation. Part of the complex F(0) domain. A homomeric c-ring of probably 10 subunits is part of the complex rotary element	same
ATP5B	This gene encodes a subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase. Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosphorylation. ATP synthase is composed of two linked multi-subunit complexes: the soluble catalytic core, F1, and the membrane-spanning component, Fo, comprising the proton channel. The catalytic portion of mitochondrial ATP synthase consists of 5 different subunits (alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon) assembled with a stoichiometry of 3 alpha, 3 beta, and a single representative of the other 3. The proton channel consists of three main subunits (a, b, c). This gene encodes the beta subunit of the catalytic core. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATP5B (ATP Synthase, H+ Transporting, Mitochondrial F1 Complex, Beta Polypeptide) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity and transmembrane transporter activity.	Mitochondrial membrane ATP synthase (F(1)F(0) ATP synthase or Complex V) produces ATP from ADP in the presence of a proton gradient across the membrane which is generated by electron transport complexes of the respiratory chain. F-type ATPases consist of two structural domains, F(1) - containing the extramembraneous catalytic core, and F(0) - containing the membrane proton channel, linked together by a central stalk and a peripheral stalk. During catalysis, ATP synthesis in the catalytic domain of F(1) is coupled via a rotary mechanism of the central stalk subunits to proton translocation. Subunits alpha and beta form the catalytic core in F(1). Rotation of the central stalk against the surrounding alpha(3)beta(3) subunits leads to hydrolysis of ATP in three separate catalytic sites on the beta subunits	same
ATP5EP2	empty	ATP5EP2 (ATP Synthase, H+ Transporting, Mitochondrial F1 Complex, Epsilon Subunit Pseudogene 2) is a Pseudogene. Among its related pathways are purine nucleotide salvage and purine nucleotide salvage. GO annotations related to this gene include proton-transporting ATPase activity, rotational mechanism and proton-transporting ATP synthase activity, rotational mechanism. An important paralog of this gene is ATP5E.	Mitochondrial membrane ATP synthase (F(1)F(0) ATP synthase or Complex V) produces ATP from ADP in the presence of a proton gradient across the membrane which is generated by electron transport complexes of the respiratory chain. F-type ATPases consist of two structural domains, F(1) - containing the extramembraneous catalytic core, and F(0) - containing the membrane proton channel, linked together by a central stalk and a peripheral stalk. During catalysis, ATP synthesis in the catalytic domain of F(1) is coupled via a rotary mechanism of the central stalk subunits to proton translocation. Part of the complex F(1) domain and of the central stalk which is part of the complex rotary element. Rotation of the central stalk against the surrounding alpha(3)beta(3) subunits leads to hydrolysis of ATP in three separate catalytic sites on the beta subunits (By similarity).	same
ATP5E	This gene encodes a subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase. Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosphorylation. ATP synthase is composed of two linked multi-subunit complexes: the soluble catalytic core, F1, and the membrane-spanning component, Fo, comprising the proton channel. The catalytic portion of mitochondrial ATP synthase consists of 5 different subunits (alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon) assembled with a stoichiometry of 3 alpha, 3 beta, and a single representative of the other 3. The proton channel consists of three main subunits (a, b, c). This gene encodes the epsilon subunit of the catalytic core. Two pseudogenes of this gene are located on chromosomes 4 and 13. Read-through transcripts that include exons from this gene are expressed from the upstream gene SLMO2.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]	ATP5E (ATP Synthase, H+ Transporting, Mitochondrial F1 Complex, Epsilon Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP5E include mitochondrial complex iii deficiency, nuclear type 5 and isolated atp synthase deficiency. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase activity and proton-transporting ATPase activity, rotational mechanism. An important paralog of this gene is ATP5EP2.	Mitochondrial membrane ATP synthase (F(1)F(0) ATP synthase or Complex V) produces ATP from ADP in the presence of a proton gradient across the membrane which is generated by electron transport complexes of the respiratory chain. F-type ATPases consist of two structural domains, F(1) - containing the extramembraneous catalytic core, and F(0) - containing the membrane proton channel, linked together by a central stalk and a peripheral stalk. During catalysis, ATP synthesis in the catalytic domain of F(1) is coupled via a rotary mechanism of the central stalk subunits to proton translocation. Part of the complex F(1) domain and of the central stalk which is part of the complex rotary element. Rotation of the central stalk against the surrounding alpha(3)beta(3) subunits leads to hydrolysis of ATP in three separate catalytic sites on the beta subunits (By similarity).	same
ATP5F1	This gene encodes a subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase. Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosphorylation. ATP synthase is composed of two linked multi-subunit complexes: the soluble catalytic core, F1, and the membrane-spanning component, Fo, comprising the proton channel. The catalytic portion of mitochondrial ATP synthase consists of 5 different subunits (alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon) assembled with a stoichiometry of 3 alpha, 3 beta, and a single representative of the other 3. The proton channel seems to have nine subunits (a, b, c, d, e, f, g, F6 and 8). This gene encodes the b subunit of the proton channel. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATP5F1 (ATP Synthase, H+ Transporting, Mitochondrial Fo Complex, Subunit B1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase activity and proton-transporting ATP synthase activity, rotational mechanism.	Mitochondrial membrane ATP synthase (F(1)F(0) ATP synthase or Complex V) produces ATP from ADP in the presence of a proton gradient across the membrane which is generated by electron transport complexes of the respiratory chain. F-type ATPases consist of two structural domains, F(1) - containing the extramembraneous catalytic core, and F(0) - containing the membrane proton channel, linked together by a central stalk and a peripheral stalk. During catalysis, ATP synthesis in the catalytic domain of F(1) is coupled via a rotary mechanism of the central stalk subunits to proton translocation. Part of the complex F(0) domain and the peripheric stalk, which acts as a stator to hold the catalytic alpha(3)beta(3) subcomplex and subunit a/ATP6 static relative to the rotary elements	same
ATP5I	Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosphorylation. It is composed of two linked multi-subunit complexes: the soluble catalytic core, F1, and the membrane-spanning component, Fo, which comprises the proton channel. The F1 complex consists of 5 different subunits (alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon) assembled in a ratio of 3 alpha, 3 beta, and a single representative of the other 3. The Fo seems to have nine subunits (a, b, c, d, e, f, g, F6 and 8). This gene encodes the e subunit of the Fo complex. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	ATP5I (ATP Synthase, H+ Transporting, Mitochondrial Fo Complex, Subunit E) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase activity and hydrogen ion transmembrane transporter activity.	Mitochondrial membrane ATP synthase (F(1)F(0) ATP synthase or Complex V) produces ATP from ADP in the presence of a proton gradient across the membrane which is generated by electron transport complexes of the respiratory chain. F-type ATPases consist of two structural domains, F(1) - containing the extramembraneous catalytic core, and F(0) - containing the membrane proton channel, linked together by a central stalk and a peripheral stalk. During catalysis, ATP synthesis in the catalytic domain of F(1) is coupled via a rotary mechanism of the central stalk subunits to proton translocation. Part of the complex F(0) domain. Minor subunit located with subunit a in the membrane	same
ATP5H	Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosphorylation. It is composed of two linked multi-subunit complexes: the soluble catalytic core, F1, and the membrane-spanning component, Fo, which comprises the proton channel. The F1 complex consists of 5 different subunits (alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon) assembled in a ratio of 3 alpha, 3 beta, and a single representative of the other 3. The Fo seems to have nine subunits (a, b, c, d, e, f, g, F6 and 8). This gene encodes the d subunit of the Fo complex. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene. In addition, three pseudogenes are located on chromosomes 9, 12 and 15. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	ATP5H (ATP Synthase, H+ Transporting, Mitochondrial Fo Complex, Subunit D) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP5H include body dysmorphic disorder. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase activity and hydrogen ion transmembrane transporter activity.	Mitochondrial membrane ATP synthase (F(1)F(0) ATP synthase or Complex V) produces ATP from ADP in the presence of a proton gradient across the membrane which is generated by electron transport complexes of the respiratory chain. F-type ATPases consist of two structural domains, F(1) - containing the extramembraneous catalytic core, and F(0) - containing the membrane proton channel, linked together by a central stalk and a peripheral stalk. During catalysis, ATP synthesis in the catalytic domain of F(1) is coupled via a rotary mechanism of the central stalk subunits to proton translocation. Part of the complex F(0) domain and the peripheric stalk, which acts as a stator to hold the catalytic alpha(3)beta(3) subcomplex and subunit a/ATP6 static relative to the rotary elements	same
ATP5L2	empty	ATP5L2 (ATP Synthase, H+ Transporting, Mitochondrial Fo Complex, Subunit G2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are purine nucleotide salvage and purine nucleotide salvage. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrogen ion transmembrane transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP5L.	Mitochondrial membrane ATP synthase (F(1)F(0) ATP synthase or Complex V) produces ATP from ADP in the presence of a proton gradient across the membrane which is generated by electron transport complexes of the respiratory chain. F-type ATPases consist of two structural domains, F(1) - containing the extramembraneous catalytic core, and F(0) - containing the membrane proton channel, linked together by a central stalk and a peripheral stalk. During catalysis, ATP synthesis in the catalytic domain of F(1) is coupled via a rotary mechanism of the central stalk subunits to proton translocation. Part of the complex F(0) domain. Minor subunit located with subunit a in the membrane (By similarity).	same
ATP5J	Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosphorylation. It is composed of two linked multi-subunit complexes: the soluble catalytic core, F1, and the membrane-spanning component, Fo, which comprises the proton channel. The F1 complex consists of 5 different subunits (alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon) assembled in a ratio of 3 alpha, 3 beta, and a single representative of the other 3. The Fo seems to have nine subunits (a, b, c, d, e, f, g, F6 and 8). This gene encodes the F6 subunit of the Fo complex, required for F1 and Fo interactions. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene. A pseudogene exists on chromosome Yp11.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	ATP5J (ATP Synthase, H+ Transporting, Mitochondrial Fo Complex, Subunit F6) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity and transmembrane transporter activity.	Mitochondrial membrane ATP synthase (F(1)F(0) ATP synthase or Complex V) produces ATP from ADP in the presence of a proton gradient across the membrane which is generated by electron transport complexes of the respiratory chain. F-type ATPases consist of two structural domains, F(1) - containing the extramembraneous catalytic core and F(0) - containing the membrane proton channel, linked together by a central stalk and a peripheral stalk. During catalysis, ATP synthesis in the catalytic domain of F(1) is coupled via a rotary mechanism of the central stalk subunits to proton translocation. Part of the complex F(0) domain and the peripheric stalk, which acts as a stator to hold the catalytic alpha(3)beta(3) subcomplex and subunit a/ATP6 static relative to the rotary elements. Also involved in the restoration of oligomycin-sensitive ATPase activity to depleted F1-F0 complexes	same
ATP5O	The protein encoded by this gene is a component of the F-type ATPase found in the mitochondrial matrix. F-type ATPases are composed of a catalytic core and a membrane proton channel. The encoded protein appears to be part of the connector linking these two components and may be involved in transmission of conformational changes or proton conductance. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATP5O (ATP Synthase, H+ Transporting, Mitochondrial F1 Complex, O Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP5O include autoimmune polyglandular syndrome type 2 and d-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity and drug binding. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000249209.	Mitochondrial membrane ATP synthase (F(1)F(0) ATP synthase or Complex V) produces ATP from ADP in the presence of a proton gradient across the membrane which is generated by electron transport complexes of the respiratory chain. F-type ATPases consist of two structural domains, F(1) - containing the extramembraneous catalytic core and F(0) - containing the membrane proton channel, linked together by a central stalk and a peripheral stalk. During catalysis, ATP synthesis in the catalytic domain of F(1) is coupled via a rotary mechanism of the central stalk subunits to proton translocation. Part of the complex F(0) domain and the peripheric stalk, which acts as a stator to hold the catalytic alpha(3)beta(3) subcomplex and subunit a/ATP6 static relative to the rotary elements	same
ATP5S	This gene encodes a subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase. Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosphorylation. ATP synthase is composed of two linked multi-subunit complexes: the soluble catalytic core, F1, and the membrane-spanning component, Fo, comprising the proton channel. This gene encodes the subunit s, also known as factor B, of the proton channel. This subunit is necessary for the energy transduction activity of the ATP synthase complexes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATP5S (ATP Synthase, H+ Transporting, Mitochondrial Fo Complex, Subunit S (Factor B)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are purine nucleotide salvage and purine nucleotide salvage. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrogen ion transmembrane transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP5SL.	Involved in regulation of mitochondrial membrane ATP synthase. Necessary for H(+) conduction of ATP synthase. Facilitates energy-driven catalysis of ATP synthesis by blocking a proton leak through an alternative proton exit pathway (By similarity).	same
ATP6AP1	This gene encodes a component of a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of eukaryotic intracellular organelles. Vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase) is comprised of a cytosolic V1 (site of the ATP catalytic site) and a transmembrane V0 domain. V-ATPase dependent organelle acidification is necessary for such intracellular processes as protein sorting, zymogen activation, and receptor-mediated endocytosis. The encoded protein of this gene may assist in the V-ATPase-mediated acidification of neuroendocrine secretory granules. This protein may also play a role in early development. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2013]	ATP6AP1 (ATPase, H+ Transporting, Lysosomal Accessory Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Lysosome and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity and proton-transporting ATP synthase activity, rotational mechanism. An important paralog of this gene is ATP6AP1L.	Vacuolar ATPase is responsible for acidifying a variety of intracellular compartments in eukaryotic cells.	same
ATP5L	Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosphorylation. It is composed of two linked multi-subunit complexes: the soluble catalytic core, F1, and the membrane-spanning component, Fo, which comprises the proton channel. The F1 complex consists of 5 different subunits (alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon) assembled in a ratio of 3 alpha, 3 beta, and a single representative of the other 3. The Fo seems to have nine subunits (a, b, c, d, e, f, g, F6 and 8). This gene encodes the g subunit of the Fo complex. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	ATP5L (ATP Synthase, H+ Transporting, Mitochondrial Fo Complex, Subunit G) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase activity and hydrogen ion transmembrane transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP5L2.	Mitochondrial membrane ATP synthase (F(1)F(0) ATP synthase or Complex V) produces ATP from ADP in the presence of a proton gradient across the membrane which is generated by electron transport complexes of the respiratory chain. F-type ATPases consist of two structural domains, F(1) - containing the extramembraneous catalytic core, and F(0) - containing the membrane proton channel, linked together by a central stalk and a peripheral stalk. During catalysis, ATP synthesis in the catalytic domain of F(1) is coupled via a rotary mechanism of the central stalk subunits to proton translocation. Part of the complex F(0) domain. Minor subunit located with subunit a in the membrane	same
ATP5D	This gene encodes a subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase. Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosphorylation. ATP synthase is composed of two linked multi-subunit complexes: the soluble catalytic core, F1, and the membrane-spanning component, Fo, comprising the proton channel. The catalytic portion of mitochondrial ATP synthase consists of 5 different subunits (alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon) assembled with a stoichiometry of 3 alpha, 3 beta, and a single representative of the other 3. The proton channel consists of three main subunits (a, b, c). This gene encodes the delta subunit of the catalytic core. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same isoform have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATP5D (ATP Synthase, H+ Transporting, Mitochondrial F1 Complex, Delta Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity and ADP binding.	Mitochondrial membrane ATP synthase (F(1)F(0) ATP synthase or Complex V) produces ATP from ADP in the presence of a proton gradient across the membrane which is generated by electron transport complexes of the respiratory chain. F-type ATPases consist of two structural domains, F(1) - containing the extramembraneous catalytic core, and F(0) - containing the membrane proton channel, linked together by a central stalk and a peripheral stalk. During catalysis, ATP turnover in the catalytic domain of F(1) is coupled via a rotary mechanism of the central stalk subunits to proton translocation. Part of the complex F(1) domain and of the central stalk which is part of the complex rotary element. Rotation of the central stalk against the surrounding alpha(3)beta(3) subunits leads to hydrolysis of ATP in three separate catalytic sites on the beta subunits	same
ATP5C1	This gene encodes a subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase. Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosphorylation. ATP synthase is composed of two linked multi-subunit complexes: the soluble catalytic core, F1, and the membrane-spanning component, Fo, comprising the proton channel. The catalytic portion of mitochondrial ATP synthase consists of 5 different subunits (alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon) assembled with a stoichiometry of 3 alpha, 3 beta, and a single representative of the other 3. The proton channel consists of three main subunits (a, b, c). This gene encodes the gamma subunit of the catalytic core. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. This gene also has a pseudogene on chromosome 14. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATP5C1 (ATP Synthase, H+ Transporting, Mitochondrial F1 Complex, Gamma Polypeptide 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase activity and proton-transporting ATPase activity, rotational mechanism.	Mitochondrial membrane ATP synthase (F(1)F(0) ATP synthase or Complex V) produces ATP from ADP in the presence of a proton gradient across the membrane which is generated by electron transport complexes of the respiratory chain. F-type ATPases consist of two structural domains, F(1) - containing the extramembraneous catalytic core, and F(0) - containing the membrane proton channel, linked together by a central stalk and a peripheral stalk. During catalysis, ATP synthesis in the catalytic domain of F(1) is coupled via a rotary mechanism of the central stalk subunits to proton translocation. Part of the complex F(1) domain and the central stalk which is part of the complex rotary element. The gamma subunit protrudes into the catalytic domain formed of alpha(3)beta(3). Rotation of the central stalk against the surrounding alpha(3)beta(3) subunits leads to hydrolysis of ATP in three separate catalytic sites on the beta subunits	same
ATP5SL	empty	ATP5SL (ATP5S-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ATP5S.	empty	same
ATP5G3	This gene encodes a subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase. Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosphorylation. ATP synthase is composed of two linked multi-subunit complexes: the soluble catalytic core, F1, and the membrane-spanning component, Fo, comprising the proton channel. The catalytic portion of mitochondrial ATP synthase consists of 5 different subunits (alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon) assembled with a stoichiometry of 3 alpha, 3 beta, and a single representative of the other 3. The proton channel seems to have nine subunits (a, b, c, d, e, f, g, F6 and 8). This gene is one of three genes that encode subunit c of the proton channel. Each of the three genes have distinct mitochondrial import sequences but encode the identical mature protein. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different proteins have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	ATP5G3 (ATP Synthase, H+ Transporting, Mitochondrial Fo Complex, Subunit C3 (Subunit 9)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP5G3 include spindle cell hemangioma. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Alzheimers disease. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity and hydrogen ion transmembrane transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP5G1.	Mitochondrial membrane ATP synthase (F(1)F(0) ATP synthase or Complex V) produces ATP from ADP in the presence of a proton gradient across the membrane which is generated by electron transport complexes of the respiratory chain. F-type ATPases consist of two structural domains, F(1) - containing the extramembraneous catalytic core and F(0) - containing the membrane proton channel, linked together by a central stalk and a peripheral stalk. During catalysis, ATP synthesis in the catalytic domain of F(1) is coupled via a rotary mechanism of the central stalk subunits to proton translocation. Part of the complex F(0) domain. A homomeric c-ring of probably 10 subunits is part of the complex rotary element	same
ATP6AP1L	empty	ATP6AP1L (ATPase, H+ Transporting, Lysosomal Accessory Protein 1-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include proton-transporting ATPase activity, rotational mechanism and proton-transporting ATP synthase activity, rotational mechanism. An important paralog of this gene is ATP6AP1.	empty	same
ATP4B	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a family of P-type cation-transporting ATPases. The gastric H+, K+-ATPase is a heterodimer consisting of a high molecular weight catalytic alpha subunit and a smaller but heavily glycosylated beta subunit. This enzyme is a proton pump that catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled with the exchange of H(+) and K(+) ions across the plasma membrane. It is also responsible for gastric acid secretion. This gene encodes the beta subunit of the gastric H+, K+-ATPase. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATP4B (ATPase, H+/K+ Exchanging, Beta Polypeptide) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Ion channel transport and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrogen:potassium-exchanging ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP1B3.	Required for stabilization and maturation of the catalytic proton pump alpha subunit and may also involved in cell adhesion and establishing epithelial cell polarity.	same
ATP6V0B	This gene encodes a portion of the V0 domain of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of eukaryotic intracellular organelles. Activity of this enzyme is necessary for such varied processes as protein sorting, zymogen activation, receptor-mediated endocytosis, and synaptic vesicle proton gradient generation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2014]	ATP6V0B (ATPase, H+ Transporting, Lysosomal 21kDa, V0 Subunit B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP6V0B include cannabis abuse. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Insulin receptor signalling cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity and hydrogen ion transmembrane transporter activity.	Proton-conducting pore forming subunit of the membrane integral V0 complex of vacuolar ATPase. V-ATPase is responsible for acidifying a variety of intracellular compartments in eukaryotic cells	same
ATP6V0C	This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of eukaryotic intracellular organelles. V-ATPase dependent organelle acidification is necessary for such intracellular processes as protein sorting, zymogen activation, receptor-mediated endocytosis, and synaptic vesicle proton gradient generation. V-ATPase is composed of a cytosolic V1 domain and a transmembrane V0 domain. The V1 domain consists of three A and three B subunits, two G subunits plus the C, D, E, F, and H subunits. The V1 domain contains the ATP catalytic site. The V0 domain consists of five different subunits: a, c, c', c", and d. This gene encodes the V0 subunit c. Alternative splicing results in transcript variants. Pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 6 and 17. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]	ATP6V0C (ATPase, H+ Transporting, Lysosomal 16kDa, V0 Subunit C) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP6V0C include progressive myoclonic epilepsy with dystonia. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Insulin receptor signalling cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin protein ligase binding and proton-transporting ATP synthase activity, rotational mechanism.	Proton-conducting pore forming subunit of the membrane integral V0 complex of vacuolar ATPase. V-ATPase is responsible for acidifying a variety of intracellular compartments in eukaryotic cells	same
ATP6V0E1	This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of eukaryotic intracellular organelles. V-ATPase dependent organelle acidification is necessary for such intracellular processes as protein sorting, zymogen activation, receptor-mediated endocytosis, and synaptic vesicle proton gradient generation. V-ATPase is composed of a cytosolic V1 domain and a transmembrane V0 domain. The V1 domain consists of three A and three B subunits, two G subunits plus the C, D, E, F, and H subunits. The V1 domain contains the ATP catalytic site. The V0 domain consists of five different subunits: a, c, c', c", and d. Additional isoforms of many of the V1 and V0 subunit proteins are encoded by multiple genes or alternatively spliced transcript variants. This encoded protein is possibly part of the V0 subunit. Since two nontranscribed pseudogenes have been found in dog, it is possible that the localization to chromosome 2 for this gene by radiation hybrid mapping is representing a pseudogene. Genomic mapping puts the chromosomal location on 5q35.3. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATP6V0E1 (ATPase, H+ Transporting, Lysosomal 9kDa, V0 Subunit E1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Insulin receptor signalling cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity and ATPase activity, coupled to transmembrane movement of ions. An important paralog of this gene is ATP6V0E2.	Vacuolar ATPase is responsible for acidifying a variety of intracellular compartments in eukaryotic cells	same
ATP5J2	Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosphorylation. It is composed of two linked multi-subunit complexes: the soluble catalytic core, F1, and the membrane-spanning component, Fo, which comprises the proton channel. The catalytic portion of mitochondrial ATP synthase consists of five different subunits (alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon) assembled with a stoichiometry of 3 alpha, 3 beta, and single representatives of the gamma, delta, and epsilon subunits. The proton channel likely has nine subunits (a, b, c, d, e, f, g, F6 and 8). This gene encodes the f subunit of the Fo complex. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene. This gene has multiple pseudogenes. Naturally occurring read-through transcription also exists between this gene and the downstream pentatricopeptide repeat domain 1 (PTCD1) gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]	ATP5J2 (ATP Synthase, H+ Transporting, Mitochondrial Fo Complex, Subunit F2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase activity and transmembrane transporter activity.	Mitochondrial membrane ATP synthase (F(1)F(0) ATP synthase or Complex V) produces ATP from ADP in the presence of a proton gradient across the membrane which is generated by electron transport complexes of the respiratory chain. F-type ATPases consist of two structural domains, F(1) - containing the extramembraneous catalytic core and F(0) - containing the membrane proton channel, linked together by a central stalk and a peripheral stalk. During catalysis, ATP synthesis in the catalytic domain of F(1) is coupled via a rotary mechanism of the central stalk subunits to proton translocation. Part of the complex F(0) domain. Minor subunit located with subunit a in the membrane	same
ATP6V0A4	This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of intracellular compartments of eukaryotic cells. V-ATPase dependent acidification is necessary for such intracellular processes as protein sorting, zymogen activation, receptor-mediated endocytosis, and synaptic vesicle proton gradient generation. V-ATPase is composed of a cytosolic V1 domain and a transmembrane V0 domain. The V1 domain consists of three A and three B subunits, two G subunits plus the C, D, E, F, and H subunits. The V1 domain contains the ATP catalytic site. The V0 domain consists of five different subunits: a, c, c', c'', and d. This gene is one of four genes in man and mouse that encode different isoforms of the a subunit. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been described. Mutations in this gene are associated with renal tubular acidosis associated with preserved hearing. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATP6V0A4 (ATPase, H+ Transporting, Lysosomal V0 Subunit A4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP6V0A4 include renal tubular acidosis, distal, autosomal recessive and renal tubular acidosis, distal, ad. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Insulin receptor signalling cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase binding and hydrogen ion transmembrane transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP6V0A1.	Part of the proton channel of the V-ATPase that is involved in normal vectorial acid transport into the urine by the kidney.	same
ATP6V1A	This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of eukaryotic intracellular organelles. V-ATPase dependent organelle acidification is necessary for such intracellular processes as protein sorting, zymogen activation, receptor-mediated endocytosis, and synaptic vesicle proton gradient generation. V-ATPase is composed of a cytosolic V1 domain and a transmembrane V0 domain. The V1 domain consists of three A and three B subunits, two G subunits plus the C, D, E, F, and H subunits. The V1 domain contains the ATP catalytic site. The V0 domain consists of five different subunits: a, c, c', c", and d. Additional isoforms of many of the V1 and V0 subunit proteins are encoded by multiple genes or alternatively spliced transcript variants. This encoded protein is one of two V1 domain A subunit isoforms and is found in all tissues. Transcript variants derived from alternative polyadenylation exist. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATP6V1A (ATPase, H+ Transporting, Lysosomal 70kDa, V1 Subunit A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP6V1A include histoplasmosis. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Insulin receptor signalling cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include proton-transporting ATPase activity, rotational mechanism.	Catalytic subunit of the peripheral V1 complex of vacuolar ATPase. V-ATPase vacuolar ATPase is responsible for acidifying a variety of intracellular compartments in eukaryotic cells	same
ATP6V1B1	This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of eukaryotic intracellular organelles. V-ATPase dependent organelle acidification is necessary for such intracellular processes as protein sorting, zymogen activation, receptor-mediated endocytosis, and synaptic vesicle proton gradient generation. V-ATPase is composed of a cytosolic V1 domain and a transmembrane V0 domain. The V1 domain consists of three A and three B subunits, two G subunits plus the C, D, E, F, and H subunits. The V1 domain contains the ATP catalytic site. The V0 domain consists of five different subunits: a, c, c', c'', and d. Additional isoforms of many of the V1 and V0 subunit proteins are encoded by multiple genes or alternatively spliced transcript variants. This encoded protein is one of two V1 domain B subunit isoforms and is found in the kidney. Mutations in this gene cause distal renal tubular acidosis associated with sensorineural deafness. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATP6V1B1 (ATPase, H+ Transporting, Lysosomal 56/58kDa, V1 Subunit B1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP6V1B1 include renal tubular acidosis with deafness and renal tubular acidosis. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Insulin receptor signalling cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include protein complex binding and hydrolase activity, acting on acid anhydrides, catalyzing transmembrane movement of substances. An important paralog of this gene is ATP6V1B2.	Non-catalytic subunit of the peripheral V1 complex of vacuolar ATPase. V-ATPase is responsible for acidifying a variety of intracellular compartments in eukaryotic cells	same
ATP6V0E2	Multisubunit vacuolar-type proton pumps, or H(+)-ATPases, acidify various intracellular compartments, such as vacuoles, clathrin-coated and synaptic vesicles, endosomes, lysosomes, and chromaffin granules. H(+)-ATPases are also found in plasma membranes of specialized cells, where they play roles in urinary acidification, bone resorption, and sperm maturation. Multiple subunits form H(+)-ATPases, with proteins of the V1 class hydrolyzing ATP for energy to transport H+, and proteins of the V0 class forming an integral membrane domain through which H+ is transported. ATP6V0E2 encodes an isoform of the H(+)-ATPase V0 e subunit, an essential proton pump component (Blake-Palmer et al., 2007 [PubMed 17350184]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	ATP6V0E2 (ATPase, H+ Transporting V0 Subunit E2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP6V0E2 include osteopetrosis. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Insulin receptor signalling cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrogen ion transmembrane transporter activity and ATPase activity, coupled to transmembrane movement of ions. An important paralog of this gene is ATP6V0E1.	Vacuolar ATPase is responsible for acidifying a variety of intracellular compartments in eukaryotic cells.	same
ANKRD58	empty	SOWAHD (Sosondowah Ankyrin Repeat Domain Family Member D) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is SOWAHA.	empty	diff
ATP6V1C1	This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of intracellular compartments of eukaryotic cells. V-ATPase dependent acidification is necessary for such intracellular processes as protein sorting, zymogen activation, receptor-mediated endocytosis, and synaptic vesicle proton gradient generation. V-ATPase is composed of a cytosolic V1 domain and a transmembrane V0 domain. The V1 domain consists of three A and three B subunits, two G subunits plus the C, D, E, F, and H subunits. The V1 domain contains the ATP catalytic site. The V0 domain consists of five different subunits: a, c, c', c'', and d. Additional isoforms of many of the V1 and V0 subunit proteins are encoded by multiple genes or alternatively spliced transcript variants. This gene is one of two genes that encode the V1 domain C subunit proteins and is found ubiquitously. This C subunit is analogous but not homologous to gamma subunit of F-ATPases. Previously, this gene was designated ATP6D. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATP6V1C1 (ATPase, H+ Transporting, Lysosomal 42kDa, V1 Subunit C1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Insulin receptor signalling cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity and hydrogen-exporting ATPase activity, phosphorylative mechanism. An important paralog of this gene is ATP6V1C2.	Subunit of the peripheral V1 complex of vacuolar ATPase. Subunit C is necessary for the assembly of the catalytic sector of the enzyme and is likely to have a specific function in its catalytic activity. V-ATPase is responsible for acidifying a variety of intracellular compartments in eukaryotic cells	same
ATP6V1B2	This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of eukaryotic intracellular organelles. V-ATPase dependent organelle acidification is necessary for such intracellular processes as protein sorting, zymogen activation, receptor-mediated endocytosis, and synaptic vesicle proton gradient generation. V-ATPase is composed of a cytosolic V1 domain and a transmembrane V0 domain. The V1 domain consists of three A, three B, and two G subunits, as well as a C, D, E, F, and H subunit. The V1 domain contains the ATP catalytic site. The protein encoded by this gene is one of two V1 domain B subunit isoforms and is the only B isoform highly expressed in osteoclasts. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATP6V1B2 (ATPase, H+ Transporting, Lysosomal 56/58kDa, V1 Subunit B2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP6V1B2 include autosomal dominant deafness-onychodystrophy syndrome and pigmented villonodular synovitis. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Insulin receptor signalling cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrogen ion transmembrane transporter activity and proton-transporting ATPase activity, rotational mechanism. An important paralog of this gene is ATP6V1B1.	Non-catalytic subunit of the peripheral V1 complex of vacuolar ATPase. V-ATPase is responsible for acidifying a variety of intracellular compartments in eukaryotic cells	same
ATP6V1C2	This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of eukaryotic intracellular organelles. V-ATPase dependent organelle acidification is necessary for such intracellular processes as protein sorting, zymogen activation, receptor-mediated endocytosis, and synaptic vesicle proton gradient generation. V-ATPase is composed of a cytosolic V1 domain and a transmembrane V0 domain. The V1 domain consists of three A,three B, and two G subunits, as well as a C, D, E, F, and H subunit. The V1 domain contains the ATP catalytic site. This gene encodes alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different V1 domain C subunit isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATP6V1C2 (ATPase, H+ Transporting, Lysosomal 42kDa, V1 Subunit C2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Insulin receptor signalling cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrogen-exporting ATPase activity, phosphorylative mechanism. An important paralog of this gene is ATP6V1C1.	Subunit of the peripheral V1 complex of vacuolar ATPase. Subunit C is necessary for the assembly of the catalytic sector of the enzyme and is likely to have a specific function in its catalytic activity. V-ATPase is responsible for acidifying a variety of intracellular compartments in eukaryotic cells	same
ATP6V1D	This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of eukaryotic intracellular organelles. V-ATPase dependent organelle acidification is necessary for such intracellular processes as protein sorting, zymogen activation, receptor-mediated endocytosis, and synaptic vesicle proton gradient generation. V-ATPase is composed of a cytosolic V1 domain and a transmembrane V0 domain. The V1 domain consists of three A and three B subunits, two G subunits plus the C, D, E, F, and H subunits. The V1 domain contains the ATP catalytic site. The V0 domain consists of five different subunits: a, c, c', c", and d. Additional isoforms of many of the V1 and V0 subunit proteins are encoded by multiple genes or alternatively spliced transcript variants. This gene encodes the V1 domain D subunit protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATP6V1D (ATPase, H+ Transporting, Lysosomal 34kDa, V1 Subunit D) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Insulin receptor signalling cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase activity, coupled to transmembrane movement of substances.	Subunit of the peripheral V1 complex of vacuolar ATPase. Vacuolar ATPase is responsible for acidifying a variety of intracellular compartments in eukaryotic cells, thus providing most of the energy required for transport processes in the vacuolar system (By similarity). May play a role in cilium biogenesis through regulation of the transport and the localization of proteins to the cilium.	same
ATP6V0A2	The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of the vacuolar ATPase (v-ATPase), an heteromultimeric enzyme that is present in intracellular vesicles and in the plasma membrane of specialized cells, and which is essential for the acidification of diverse cellular components. V-ATPase is comprised of a membrane peripheral V(1) domain for ATP hydrolysis, and an integral membrane V(0) domain for proton translocation. The subunit encoded by this gene is a component of the V(0) domain. Mutations in this gene are a cause of both cutis laxa type II and wrinkly skin syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009]	ATP6V0A2 (ATPase, H+ Transporting, Lysosomal V0 Subunit A2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP6V0A2 include cutis laxa, autosomal recessive, type iia and wrinkly skin syndrome. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Insulin receptor signalling cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrogen ion transmembrane transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP6V0A1.	Part of the proton channel of V-ATPases. Essential component of the endosomal pH-sensing machinery. May play a role in maintaining the Golgi functions, such as glycosylation maturation, by controlling the Golgi pH.	same
ATP6AP2	This gene encodes a protein that is associated with adenosine triphosphatases (ATPases). Proton-translocating ATPases have fundamental roles in energy conservation, secondary active transport, acidification of intracellular compartments, and cellular pH homeostasis. There are three classes of ATPases- F, P, and V. The vacuolar (V-type) ATPases have a transmembrane proton-conducting sector and an extramembrane catalytic sector. The encoded protein has been found associated with the transmembrane sector of the V-type ATPases. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATP6AP2 (ATPase, H+ Transporting, Lysosomal Accessory Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP6AP2 include mental retardation, x-linked, syndromic, hedera type and parkinsonism with spasticity, x-linked. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Wnt signaling network. GO annotations related to this gene include enzyme binding and receptor activity.	Functions as a renin and prorenin cellular receptor. May mediate renin-dependent cellular responses by activating ERK1 and ERK2. By increasing the catalytic efficiency of renin in AGT/angiotensinogen conversion to angiotensin I, it may also play a role in the renin-angiotensin system (RAS).	same
ATP6V1E1	This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of eukaryotic intracellular organelles. V-ATPase dependent organelle acidification is necessary for such intracellular processes as protein sorting, zymogen activation, receptor-mediated endocytosis, and synaptic vesicle proton gradient generation. V-ATPase is composed of a cytosolic V1 domain and a transmembrane V0 domain. The V1 domain consists of three A, three B, and two G subunits, as well as a C, D, E, F, and H subunit. The V1 domain contains the ATP catalytic site. This gene encodes alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different V1 domain E subunit isoforms. Pseudogenes for this gene have been found in the genome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATP6V1E1 (ATPase, H+ Transporting, Lysosomal 31kDa, V1 Subunit E1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP6V1E1 include cat eye syndrome. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Insulin receptor signalling cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase binding and hydrogen-exporting ATPase activity, phosphorylative mechanism. An important paralog of this gene is ATP6V1E2.	Subunit of the peripheral V1 complex of vacuolar ATPase essential for assembly or catalytic function. V-ATPase is responsible for acidifying a variety of intracellular compartments in eukaryotic cells	same
ATP6V1G2	This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of intracellular compartments of eukaryotic cells. V-ATPase dependent acidification is necessary for such intracellular processes as protein sorting, zymogen activation, receptor-mediated endocytosis, and synaptic vesicle proton gradient generation. V-ATPase is composed of a cytosolic V1 domain and a transmembrane V0 domain. The V1 domain consists of three A and three B subunits, two G subunits plus the C, D, E, F, and H subunits. The V1 domain contains the ATP catalytic site. The V0 domain consists of five different subunits: a, c, c', c'', and d. Additional isoforms of many of the V1 and V0 subunit proteins are encoded by multiple genes or alternatively spliced transcript variants. This encoded protein is one of three V1 domain G subunit proteins. This gene had previous gene symbols of ATP6G and ATP6G2. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. Read-through transcription also exists between this gene and the downstream DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) box polypeptide 39B (DDX39B) gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]	ATP6V1G2 (ATPase, H+ Transporting, Lysosomal 13kDa, V1 Subunit G2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Insulin receptor signalling cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrogen-exporting ATPase activity, phosphorylative mechanism. An important paralog of this gene is ATP6V1G3.	Catalytic subunit of the peripheral V1 complex of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase). V-ATPase is responsible for acidifying a variety of intracellular compartments in eukaryotic cells	same
ATP6V1H	This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of intracellular organelles. V-ATPase-dependent organelle acidification is necessary for multiple processes including protein sorting, zymogen activation, receptor-mediated endocytosis, and synaptic vesicle proton gradient generation. The encoded protein is the regulatory H subunit of the V1 domain of V-ATPase, which is required for catalysis of ATP but not the assembly of V-ATPase. Decreased expression of this gene may play a role in the development of type 2 diabetes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]	ATP6V1H (ATPase, H+ Transporting, Lysosomal 50/57kDa, V1 Subunit H) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Insulin receptor signalling cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase activity and enzyme regulator activity.	Subunit of the peripheral V1 complex of vacuolar ATPase. Subunit H activates the ATPase activity of the enzyme and couples ATPase activity to proton flow. Vacuolar ATPase is responsible for acidifying a variety of intracellular compartments in eukaryotic cells, thus providing most of the energy required for transport processes in the vacuolar system (By similarity). Involved in the endocytosis mediated by clathrin-coated pits, required for the formation of endosomes.	same
ATP6V0D2	empty	ATP6V0D2 (ATPase, H+ Transporting, Lysosomal 38kDa, V0 Subunit D2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Insulin receptor signalling cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrogen ion transmembrane transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP6V0D1.	Subunit of the integral membrane V0 complex of vacuolar ATPase. Vacuolar ATPase is responsible for acidifying a variety of intracellular compartments in eukaryotic cells, thus providing most of the energy required for transport processes in the vacuolar system. May play a role in coupling of proton transport and ATP hydrolysis (By similarity).	same
ATP6V1G1	This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of eukaryotic intracellular organelles. V-ATPase dependent organelle acidification is necessary for such intracellular processes as protein sorting, zymogen activation, receptor-mediated endocytosis, and synaptic vesicle proton gradient generation. V-ATPase is composed of a cytosolic V1 domain and a transmembrane V0 domain. The V1 domain consists of three A, three B, and two G subunits, as well as a C, D, E, F, and H subunit. The V1 domain contains the ATP catalytic site. The protein encoded by this gene is one of three V1 domain G subunit proteins. Pseudogenes of this gene have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATP6V1G1 (ATPase, H+ Transporting, Lysosomal 13kDa, V1 Subunit G1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Insulin receptor signalling cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase binding and hydrolase activity, acting on acid anhydrides, catalyzing transmembrane movement of substances. An important paralog of this gene is ATP6V1G3.	Catalytic subunit of the peripheral V1 complex of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase). V-ATPase is responsible for acidifying a variety of intracellular compartments in eukaryotic cells	same
ATP6V1G3	This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of eukaryotic intracellular organelles. V-ATPase dependent organelle acidification is necessary for such intracellular processes as protein sorting, zymogen activation, receptor-mediated endocytosis, and synaptic vesicle proton gradient generation. V-ATPase is composed of a cytosolic V1 domain and a transmembrane V0 domain. The V1 domain consists of three A and three B subunits, two G subunits plus the C, D, E, F, and H subunits. The V1 domain contains the ATP catalytic site. The V0 domain consists of five different subunits: a, c, c', c'' and d. Additional isoforms of many of the V1 and V0 subunit proteins are encoded by multiple genes or alternatively spliced transcript variants. This gene encodes one of three G subunit proteins. Transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATP6V1G3 (ATPase, H+ Transporting, Lysosomal 13kDa, V1 Subunit G3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Insulin receptor signalling cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase binding and hydrogen-exporting ATPase activity, phosphorylative mechanism. An important paralog of this gene is ATP6V1G2.	Catalytic subunit of the peripheral V1 complex of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase). V-ATPase is responsible for acidifying a variety of intracellular compartments in eukaryotic cells	same
ATP7A	This gene encodes a transmembrane protein that functions in copper transport across membranes. This protein is localized to the trans Golgi network, where it is predicted to supply copper to copper-dependent enzymes in the secretory pathway. It relocalizes to the plasma membrane under conditions of elevated extracellular copper, and functions in the efflux of copper from cells. Mutations in this gene are associated with Menkes disease, X-linked distal spinal muscular atrophy, and occipital horn syndrome. Alternatively-spliced transcript variants have been observed. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2013]	ATP7A (ATPase, Cu++ Transporting, Alpha Polypeptide) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP7A include menkes disease and occipital horn syndrome. Among its related pathways are Cellular Senescence and Ion channel transport. GO annotations related to this gene include copper ion binding and copper-dependent protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is ATP7B.	May supply copper to copper-requiring proteins within the secretory pathway, when localized in the trans-Golgi network. Under conditions of elevated extracellular copper, it relocalized to the plasma membrane where it functions in the efflux of copper from cells	same
ATP7B	This gene is a member of the P-type cation transport ATPase family and encodes a protein with several membrane-spanning domains, an ATPase consensus sequence, a hinge domain, a phosphorylation site, and at least 2 putative copper-binding sites. This protein functions as a monomer, exporting copper out of the cells, such as the efflux of hepatic copper into the bile. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms with distinct cellular localizations, have been characterized. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Wilson disease (WD). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATP7B (ATPase, Cu++ Transporting, Beta Polypeptide) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP7B include wilson disease and menkes disease. Among its related pathways are Ion channel transport and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include copper ion binding and copper-exporting ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP7A.	Involved in the export of copper out of the cells, such as the efflux of hepatic copper into the bile	same
ATP8A2	empty	ATP8A2 (ATPase, Aminophospholipid Transporter, Class I, Type 8A, Member 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP8A2 include cerebellar ataxia, mental retardation, and dysequilibrium syndrome 4 and cerebellar hypoplasia and mental retardation with or without quadrupedal locomotion 1. Among its related pathways are Ion channel transport and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include magnesium ion binding and phospholipid-translocating ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP8B4.	Catalytic component of a P4-ATPase flippase complex which catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled to the transport of aminophospholipids from the outer to the inner leaflet of various membranes and ensures the maintenance of asymmetric distribution of phospholipids. Phospholipid translocation seems also to be implicated in vesicle formation and in uptake of lipid signaling molecules. Reconstituted to liposomes, the ATP8A2:TMEM30A flippase complex predomiminantly transports phosphatidylserine (PS) and to a lesser extent phosphatidylethanolamine (PE). Proposed to function in the generation and maintenance of phospholipid asymmetry in photoreceptor disk membranes and neuronal axon membranes. May be involved in vesicle trafficking in neuronal cells. Involved in regulation of neurite outgrowth; acting in synergy with TMEM30A. Required for normal visual and auditory function; involved in photoreceptor and inner ear spiral ganglion cell survival	same
ATP8B1	This gene encodes a member of the P-type cation transport ATPase family, which belongs to the subfamily of aminophospholipid-transporting ATPases. The aminophospholipid translocases transport phosphatidylserine and phosphatidylethanolamine from one side of a bilayer to another. Mutations in this gene may result in progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis type 1 and in benign recurrent intrahepatic cholestasis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATP8B1 (ATPase, Aminophospholipid Transporter, Class I, Type 8B, Member 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP8B1 include cholestasis, intrahepatic, of pregnancy, 1 and cholestasis, benign recurrent intrahepatic. Among its related pathways are Ion channel transport and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include magnesium ion binding and cation-transporting ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP8B4.	Catalytic component of a P4-ATPase flippase complex which catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled to the transport of aminophospholipids from the outer to the inner leaflet of various membranes and ensures the maintenance of asymmetric distribution of phospholipids. Phospholipid translocation seems also to be implicated in vesicle formation and in uptake of lipid signaling molecules. May play a role in asymmetric distribution of phospholipids in the canicular membrane. May have a role in transport of bile acids into the canaliculus, uptake of bile acids from intestinal contents into intestinal mucosa or both. In cooperation with ABCB4 may be involved in establishing integrity of the canalicular membrane thus protecting hepatocytes from bile salts. Together with TMEM30A is involved in uptake of the synthetic drug alkylphospholipid perifosine. Involved in the microvillus formation in polarized epithelial cells; the function seems to be independent from its flippase activity. Required for the preservation of cochlear hair cells in the inner ear. May act as cardiolipin transporter during inflammatory injury.	same
ATP8A1	The P-type adenosinetriphosphatases (P-type ATPases) are a family of proteins which use the free energy of ATP hydrolysis to drive uphill transport of ions across membranes. Several subfamilies of P-type ATPases have been identified. One subfamily catalyzes transport of heavy metal ions. Another subfamily transports non-heavy metal ions (NMHI). The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the third subfamily of P-type ATPases and acts to transport amphipaths, such as phosphatidylserine. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATP8A1 (ATPase, Aminophospholipid Transporter (APLT), Class I, Type 8A, Member 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Ion channel transport and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include magnesium ion binding and phospholipid-translocating ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP8B4.	Catalytic component of a P4-ATPase flippase complex which catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled to the transport of aminophospholipids from the outer to the inner leaflet of various membranes and ensures the maintenance of asymmetric distribution of phospholipids. Phospholipid translocation seems also to be implicated in vesicle formation and in uptake of lipid signaling molecules. In vitro, its ATPase activity is selectively and stereospecifically stimulated by phosphatidylserine (PS). The flippase complex ATP8A1:TMEM30A seems to play a role in regulation of cell migration probably involving flippase-mediated translocation of phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) at the plasma membrane. Acts as aminophospholipid translocase at the plasma membrane in neuronal cells	same
ATP6V0D1	This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of eukaryotic intracellular organelles. V-ATPase dependent organelle acidification is necessary for such intracellular processes as protein sorting, zymogen activation, receptor-mediated endocytosis, and synaptic vesicle proton gradient generation. V-ATPase is composed of a cytosolic V1 domain and a transmembrane V0 domain. The V1 domain consists of three A and three B subunits, two G subunits plus the C, D, E, F, and H subunits. The V1 domain contains the ATP catalytic site. The V0 domain consists of five different subunits: a, c, c', c'', and d. Additional isoforms of many of the V1 and V0 subunit proteins are encoded by multiple genes or alternatively spliced transcript variants. This encoded protein is known as the D subunit and is found ubiquitously. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATP6V0D1 (ATPase, H+ Transporting, Lysosomal 38kDa, V0 Subunit D1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Insulin receptor signalling cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include protein complex binding and hydrogen-exporting ATPase activity, phosphorylative mechanism. An important paralog of this gene is ATP6V0D2.	Subunit of the integral membrane V0 complex of vacuolar ATPase. Vacuolar ATPase is responsible for acidifying a variety of intracellular compartments in eukaryotic cells, thus providing most of the energy required for transport processes in the vacuolar system. May play a role in coupling of proton transport and ATP hydrolysis (By similarity). May play a role in cilium biogenesis through regulation of the transport and the localization of proteins to the cilium (By similarity).	same
ATP8B2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of P-type cation transport ATPases, and to the subfamily of aminophospholipid-transporting ATPases. The aminophospholipid translocases transport phosphatidylserine and phosphatidylethanolamine from one side of a bilayer to another. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATP8B2 (ATPase, Aminophospholipid Transporter, Class I, Type 8B, Member 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Ion channel transport and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include magnesium ion binding and cation-transporting ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP8B4.	Catalytic component of a P4-ATPase flippase complex which catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled to the transport of aminophospholipids from the outer to the inner leaflet of various membranes and ensures the maintenance of asymmetric distribution of phospholipids. Phospholipid translocation seems also to be implicated in vesicle formation and in uptake of lipid signaling molecules (Probable).	same
ATP8B3	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of P-type cation transport ATPases, and to the subfamily of aminophospholipid-transporting ATPases. The aminophospholipid translocases transport phosphatidylserine and phosphatidylethanolamine from one side of a bilayer to the other. This gene encodes member 3 of phospholipid-transporting ATPase 8B; other members of this protein family are located on chromosomes 1, 15 and 18. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]	ATP8B3 (ATPase, Aminophospholipid Transporter, Class I, Type 8B, Member 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Ion channel transport and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include magnesium ion binding and cation-transporting ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP8B4.	P4-ATPase flippase which catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled to the transport of aminophospholipids from the outer to the inner leaflet of various membranes and ensures the maintenance of asymmetric distribution of phospholipids. Phospholipid translocation seems also to be implicated in vesicle formation and in uptake of lipid signaling molecules. May be responsible for the maintenance of asymmetric distribution of phosphatidylserine (PS) in spermatozoa membranes. Involved in acrosome reactions and binding of spermatozoa to zona pellucida (By similarity).	same
ATP6V1E2	empty	ATP6V1E2 (ATPase, H+ Transporting, Lysosomal 31kDa, V1 Subunit E2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Insulin receptor signalling cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include proton-transporting ATPase activity, rotational mechanism and hydrogen-exporting ATPase activity, phosphorylative mechanism. An important paralog of this gene is ATP6V1E1.	Subunit of the peripheral V1 complex of vacuolar ATPase essential for assembly or catalytic function. V-ATPase is responsible for acidifying a variety of intracellular compartments in eukaryotic cells. This isoform is essential for energy coupling involved in acidification of acrosome (By similarity).	same
ATP8B4	This gene encodes a member of the cation transport ATPase (P-type) family and type IV subfamily. The encoded protein is involved in phospholipid transport in the cell membrane. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]	ATP8B4 (ATPase, Class I, Type 8B, Member 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Ion channel transport and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include magnesium ion binding and phospholipid-translocating ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP11C.	Component of a P4-ATPase flippase complex which catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled to the transport of aminophospholipids from the outer to the inner leaflet of various membranes and ensures the maintenance of asymmetric distribution of phospholipids. Phospholipid translocation seems also to be implicated in vesicle formation and in uptake of lipid signaling molecules (Probable).	same
ATP6V1F	This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of eukaryotic intracellular organelles. V-ATPase dependent organelle acidification is necessary for such intracellular processes as protein sorting, zymogen activation, receptor-mediated endocytosis, and synaptic vesicle proton gradient generation. V-ATPase is composed of a cytosolic V1 domain and a transmembrane V0 domain. The V1 domain consists of three A and three B subunits, two G subunits plus the C, D, E, F, and H subunits. The V1 domain contains the ATP catalytic site. The V0 domain consists of five different subunits: a, c, c', c", and d. Additional isoforms of many of the V1 and V0 subunit proteins are encoded by multiple genes or alternatively spliced transcript variants. This encoded protein is the V1 domain F subunit protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATP6V1F (ATPase, H+ Transporting, Lysosomal 14kDa, V1 Subunit F) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Insulin receptor signalling cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrogen ion transmembrane transporter activity and ATPase activity, uncoupled.	Subunit of the peripheral V1 complex of vacuolar ATPase essential for assembly or catalytic function. V-ATPase is responsible for acidifying a variety of intracellular compartments in eukaryotic cells	same
ATPAF2	This gene encodes an assembly factor for the F(1) component of the mitochondrial ATP synthase. This protein binds specifically to the F1 alpha subunit and is thought to prevent this subunit from forming nonproductive homooligomers during enzyme assembly. This gene is located within the Smith-Magenis syndrome region on chromosome 17. An alternatively spliced transcript variant has been described, but its biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATPAF2 (ATP Synthase Mitochondrial F1 Complex Assembly Factor 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATPAF2 include mitochondrial complex v deficiency, nuclear type 1 and isolated atp synthase deficiency.	May play a role in the assembly of the F1 component of the mitochondrial ATP synthase (ATPase).	same
ATP5G2	This gene encodes a subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase. Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosphorylation. ATP synthase is composed of two linked multi-subunit complexes: the soluble catalytic core, F1, and the membrane-spanning component, Fo, comprising the proton channel. The catalytic portion of mitochondrial ATP synthase consists of 5 different subunits (alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon) assembled with a stoichiometry of 3 alpha, 3 beta, and single representatives of the gamma, delta, and epsilon subunits. The proton channel likely has nine subunits (a, b, c, d, e, f, g, F6 and 8). There are three separate genes which encode subunit c of the proton channel and they specify precursors with different import sequences but identical mature proteins. The protein encoded by this gene is one of three precursors of subunit c. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. This gene has multiple pseudogenes. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	ATP5G2 (ATP Synthase, H+ Transporting, Mitochondrial Fo Complex, Subunit C2 (Subunit 9)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATP5G2 include spindle cell hemangioma. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Alzheimers disease. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity and hydrogen ion transmembrane transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP5G3.	Mitochondrial membrane ATP synthase (F(1)F(0) ATP synthase or Complex V) produces ATP from ADP in the presence of a proton gradient across the membrane which is generated by electron transport complexes of the respiratory chain. F-type ATPases consist of two structural domains, F(1) - containing the extramembraneous catalytic core and F(0) - containing the membrane proton channel, linked together by a central stalk and a peripheral stalk. During catalysis, ATP synthesis in the catalytic domain of F(1) is coupled via a rotary mechanism of the central stalk subunits to proton translocation. Part of the complex F(0) domain. A homomeric c-ring of probably 10 subunits is part of the complex rotary element	same
ATP6V0A1	This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of eukaryotic intracellular organelles. V-ATPase dependent organelle acidification is necessary for such intracellular processes as protein sorting, zymogen activation, receptor-mediated endocytosis, and synaptic vesicle proton gradient generation. V-ATPase is composed of a cytosolic V1 domain and a transmembrane V0 domain. The V1 domain consists of three A and three B subunits, two G subunits plus the C, D, E, F, and H subunits. The V1 domain contains the ATP catalytic site. The V0 domain consists of five different subunits: a, c, c', c", and d. Additional isoforms of many of the V1 and V0 subunit proteins are encoded by multiple genes or alternatively spliced transcript variants. This gene encodes one of three A subunit proteins and the encoded protein is associated with clathrin-coated vesicles. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATP6V0A1 (ATPase, H+ Transporting, Lysosomal V0 Subunit A1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Insulin receptor signalling cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase binding and hydrogen ion transmembrane transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is TCIRG1.	Required for assembly and activity of the vacuolar ATPase. Potential role in differential targeting and regulation of the enzyme for a specific organelle (By similarity).	same
ATP9A	empty	ATP9A (ATPase, Class II, Type 9A) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Ion channel transport and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include magnesium ion binding and phospholipid-translocating ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP9B.	empty	same
ATRIP	This gene encodes an essential component of the DNA damage checkpoint. The encoded protein binds to single-stranded DNA coated with replication protein A. The protein also interacts with the ataxia telangiectasia and Rad3 related protein kinase, resulting in its accumulation at intranuclear foci induced by DNA damage. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012]	ATRIP (ATR Interacting Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATRIP include seckel syndrome 8 and prion disease. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle / Checkpoint Control.	Required for checkpoint signaling after DNA damage. Required for ATR expression, possibly by stabilizing the protein.	same
ATPIF1	This gene encodes a mitochondrial ATPase inhibitor. Alternative splicing occurs at this locus and three transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATPIF1 (ATPase Inhibitory Factor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Glucose / Energy Metabolism and Respiratory electron transport, ATP synthesis by chemiosmotic coupling, and heat production by uncoupling proteins.. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and enzyme inhibitor activity.	Endogenous F(1)F(o)-ATPase inhibitor limiting ATP depletion when the mitochondrial membrane potential falls below a threshold and the F(1)F(o)-ATP synthase starts hydrolyzing ATP to pump protons out of the mitochondrial matrix. Required to avoid the consumption of cellular ATP when the F(1)F(o)-ATP synthase enzyme acts as an ATP hydrolase. Indirectly acts as a regulator of heme synthesis in erythroid tissues: regulates heme synthesis by modulating the mitochondrial pH and redox potential, allowing FECH to efficiently catalyze the incorporation of iron into protoporphyrin IX to produce heme.	same
ATRNL1	empty	ATRNL1 (Attractin-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATRNL1 include radioulnar synostosis. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding. An important paralog of this gene is ATRN.	May play a role in melanocortin signaling pathways that regulate energy homeostasis.	same
ATRX	The protein encoded by this gene contains an ATPase/helicase domain, and thus it belongs to the SWI/SNF family of chromatin remodeling proteins. This protein is found to undergo cell cycle-dependent phosphorylation, which regulates its nuclear matrix and chromatin association, and suggests its involvement in the gene regulation at interphase and chromosomal segregation in mitosis. Mutations in this gene are associated with an X-linked mental retardation (XLMR) syndrome most often accompanied by alpha-thalassemia (ATRX) syndrome. These mutations have been shown to cause diverse changes in the pattern of DNA methylation, which may provide a link between chromatin remodeling, DNA methylation, and gene expression in developmental processes. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2013]	ATRX (Alpha Thalassemia/Mental Retardation Syndrome X-Linked) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATRX include alpha-thalassemia/mental retardation syndrome and mental retardation-hypotonic facies syndrome, x-linked. Among its related pathways are Integrated Breast Cancer Pathway and Homologous recombination. GO annotations related to this gene include chromatin binding and DNA helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is RAD54L.	Involved in transcriptional regulation and chromatin remodeling. Facilitates DNA replication in multiple cellular environments and is required for efficient replication of a subset of genomic loci. Binds to DNA tandem repeat sequences in both telomeres and euchromatin and in vitro binds DNA quadruplex structures. May help stabilizing G-rich regions into regular chromatin structures by remodeling G4 DNA and incorporating H3.3-containing nucleosomes. Catalytic component of the chromatin remodeling complex ATRX:DAXX which has ATP-dependent DNA translocase activity and catalyzes the replication-independent deposition of histone H3.3 in pericentric DNA repeats outside S-phase and telomeres, and the in vitro remodeling of H3.3-containing nucleosomes. Its heterochromatin targeting is proposed to involve a combinatorial readout of histone H3 modifications (specifically methylation states of H3K9 and H3K4) and association with CBX5. Involved in maintaining telomere structural integrity in embryonic stem cells which probably implies recruitment of CBX5 to telomers. Reports on the involvement in transcriptional regulation of telomeric repeat-containing RNA (TERRA) are conflicting; according (PubMed:24500201) is not sufficient to decrease chromatin condensation at telomers nor to increase expression of telomeric RNA in fibroblasts. May be involved in telomere maintenance via recombination in ALT (alternative lengthening of telomeres) cell lines. Acts as negative regulator of chromatin incorporation of transcriptionally repressive histone H2AFY, particularily at telomeres and the alpha-globin cluster in erythroleukemic cells. Participates in the allele-specific gene expression at the imprinted IGF2/H19 gene locus. On the maternal allele, required for the chromatin occupancy of SMC1 and CTCTF within the H19 imprinting control region (ICR) and involved in esatblishment of histone tails modifications in the ICR. May be involved in brain development and facial morphogenesis.	same
ATR	The protein encoded by this gene belongs the PI3/PI4-kinase family, and is most closely related to ATM, a protein kinase encoded by the gene mutated in ataxia telangiectasia. This protein and ATM share similarity with Schizosaccharomyces pombe rad3, a cell cycle checkpoint gene required for cell cycle arrest and DNA damage repair in response to DNA damage. This kinase has been shown to phosphorylate checkpoint kinase CHK1, checkpoint proteins RAD17, and RAD9, as well as tumor suppressor protein BRCA1. Mutations of this gene are associated with Seckel syndrome. An alternatively spliced transcript variant of this gene has been reported, however, its full length nature is not known. Transcript variants utilizing alternative polyA sites exist. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATR (ATR Serine/Threonine Kinase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATR include seckel syndrome 1 and cutaneous telangiectasia and cancer syndrome, familial. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and Apoptotic Pathways in Synovial Fibroblasts. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and MutSalpha complex binding. An important paralog of this gene is PRKDC.	Serine/threonine protein kinase which activates checkpoint signaling upon genotoxic stresses such as ionizing radiation (IR), ultraviolet light (UV), or DNA replication stalling, thereby acting as a DNA damage sensor. Recognizes the substrate consensus sequence [ST]-Q. Phosphorylates BRCA1, CHEK1, MCM2, RAD17, RPA2, SMC1 and p53/TP53, which collectively inhibit DNA replication and mitosis and promote DNA repair, recombination and apoptosis. Phosphorylates Ser-139 of histone variant H2AX/H2AFX at sites of DNA damage, thereby regulating DNA damage response mechanism. Required for FANCD2 ubiquitination. Critical for maintenance of fragile site stability and efficient regulation of centrosome duplication.	same
ATXN7L1	empty	ATXN7L1 (Ataxin 7-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ATXN7L2.	empty	same
ATXN10	This gene encodes a protein that may function in neuron survival, neuron differentiation, and neuritogenesis. These roles may be carried out via activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade. Expansion of a pentanucleotide repeat in an intronic region of this locus has been associated with spinocerebellar ataxia, type 10. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]	ATXN10 (Ataxin 10) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATXN10 include spinocerebellar ataxia 10 and spinocerebellar ataxia type10. Among its related pathways are Akt Signaling and CDK-mediated phosphorylation and removal of Cdc6. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding.	Necessary for the survival of cerebellar neurons. Induces neuritogenesis by activating the Ras-MAP kinase pathway. May play a role in the maintenance of a critical intracellular glycosylation level and homeostasis.	same
ATXN7L2	empty	ATXN7L2 (Ataxin 7-Like 2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ATXN7L1.	empty	same
ATP8B5P	empty	ATP8B5P (ATPase, Class I, Type 8B, Member 5, Pseudogene) is a Pseudogene.	empty	same
ATXN7L3B	empty	ATXN7L3B (Ataxin 7-Like 3B) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ATXN7L3.	empty	same
ATXN7L3	empty	ATXN7L3 (Ataxin 7-Like 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are RNA Polymerase I Promoter Opening and RNA Polymerase I Promoter Opening. GO annotations related to this gene include transcription coactivator activity and ligand-dependent nuclear receptor transcription coactivator activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATXN7L3B.	Component of the transcription regulatory histone acetylation (HAT) complex SAGA, a multiprotein complex that activates transcription by remodeling chromatin and mediating histone acetylation and deubiquitination. Within the SAGA complex, participates in a subcomplex that specifically deubiquitinates both histones H2A and H2B. The SAGA complex is recruited to specific gene promoters by activators such as MYC, where it is required for transcription. Required for nuclear receptor-mediated transactivation. Within the complex, it is required to recruit USP22 and ENY2 into the SAGA complex.	same
ATPAF1	This gene encodes an assembly factor for the F(1) component of the mitochondrial ATP synthase. This protein binds specifically to the F1 beta subunit and is thought to prevent this subunit from forming nonproductive homooligomers during enzyme assembly. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	ATPAF1 (ATP Synthase Mitochondrial F1 Complex Assembly Factor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATPAF1 include isolated atp synthase deficiency.	May play an essential role for the assembly of the mitochondrial F1-F0 complex.	same
ATXN1L	empty	ATXN1L (Ataxin 1-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is ATXN1.	Chromatin-binding factor that repress Notch signaling in the absence of Notch intracellular domain by acting as a CBF1 corepressor. Binds to the HEY promoter and might assist, along with NCOR2, RBPJ-mediated repression. Can suppress ATXN1 cytotoxicity in spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 (SCA1) (By similarity).	same
ATPBD4	empty	DPH6 (Diphthamine Biosynthesis 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are diphthamide biosynthesis. GO annotations related to this gene include diphthine-ammonia ligase activity.	Amidase that catalyzes the last step of diphthamide biosynthesis using ammonium and ATP. Diphthamide biosynthesis consists in the conversion of an L-histidine residue in the translation elongation factor (EEF2) to diphthamide (By similarity).	diff
AUP1	The protein encoded this gene is involved in several pathways including quality control of misfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum and lipid droplet accumulation. Lipid droplets are organelles in the cytoplasm that store neutral lipids such as cholesterol esters and trigylycerides to prevent the overabundance of free cholesterol and fatty acids in cells, but also to act as storage for other metabolic processes, such as membrane biogenesis. Reduced expression of this gene results in reduced lipid droplet clustering, a function that is dependent on ubiquitination of the protein. This protein contains multiple domains including a hydrophobic N-terminal domain, an acetyltranferase domain, a ubiquitin-binding CUE domain, and a UBE2B2-binding domain (G2BR). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]	AUP1 (Ancient Ubiquitous Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	May play a role in the translocation of terminally misfolded proteins from the endoplasmic reticulum lumen to the cytoplasm and their degradation by the proteasome.	same
ATXN2L	This gene encodes an ataxin type 2 related protein of unknown function. This protein is a member of the spinocerebellar ataxia (SCAs) family, which is associated with a complex group of neurodegenerative disorders. Several alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ATXN2L (Ataxin 2-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATXN2L include spinocerebellar ataxia 2. An important paralog of this gene is ATXN2.	empty	same
AURKAPS1	empty	AURKAPS1 (Aurora Kinase A Pseudogene 1) is a Pseudogene.	empty	same
ATP9B	empty	ATP9B (ATPase, Class II, Type 9B) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Ion channel transport and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include magnesium ion binding and phospholipid-translocating ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATP9A.	empty	same
AURKAIP1	empty	AURKAIP1 (Aurora Kinase A Interacting Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AURKAIP1 include stomach cancer. Among its related pathways are AhR pathway (WikiPathways) and AHR Pathway (Qiagen).	May act as a negative regulator of Aurora-A kinase, by down-regulation through proteasome-dependent degradation	same
AURKA	The protein encoded by this gene is a cell cycle-regulated kinase that appears to be involved in microtubule formation and/or stabilization at the spindle pole during chromosome segregation. The encoded protein is found at the centrosome in interphase cells and at the spindle poles in mitosis. This gene may play a role in tumor development and progression. A processed pseudogene of this gene has been found on chromosome 1, and an unprocessed pseudogene has been found on chromosome 10. Multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AURKA (Aurora Kinase A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AURKA include atypical teratoid rhabdoid tumor and laryngeal carcinoma. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and protein kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AURKC.	Mitotic serine/threonine kinases that contributes to the regulation of cell cycle progression. Associates with the centrosome and the spindle microtubules during mitosis and plays a critical role in various mitotic events including the establishment of mitotic spindle, centrosome duplication, centrosome separation as well as maturation, chromosomal alignment, spindle assembly checkpoint, and cytokinesis. Required for initial activation of CDK1 at centrosomes. Phosphorylates numerous target proteins, including ARHGEF2, BORA, BRCA1, CDC25B, DLGP5, HDAC6, KIF2A, LATS2, NDEL1, PARD3, PPP1R2, PLK1, RASSF1, TACC3, p53/TP53 and TPX2. Regulates KIF2A tubulin depolymerase activity. Required for normal axon formation. Plays a role in microtubule remodeling during neurite extension. Important for microtubule formation and/or stabilization. Also acts as a key regulatory component of the p53/TP53 pathway, and particularly the checkpoint-response pathways critical for oncogenic transformation of cells, by phosphorylating and stabilizing p53/TP53. Phosphorylates its own inhibitors, the protein phosphatase type 1 (PP1) isoforms, to inhibit their activity. Necessary for proper cilia disassembly prior to mitosis.	same
ATXN3L	This intronless gene may be a pseudogene (PMID:11450850). This gene is similar to the multi-exon gene which encodes ataxin 3 and contains a coding region which could encode a protein similar to ataxin 3. Mutations in the gene encoding ataxin 3 are associated with Machado-Joseph disease. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]	ATXN3L (Ataxin 3-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATXN3L include machado-joseph disease. Among its related pathways are Protein processing in endoplasmic reticulum. GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin-specific protease activity and omega peptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATXN3.	Deubiquitinating enzyme that cleaves both Lys-48-linked and Lys-63-linked poly-ubiquitin chains (in vitro)	same
ATXN2	The autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxias (ADCA) are a heterogeneous group of neurodegenerative disorders characterized by progressive degeneration of the cerebellum, brain stem and spinal cord. Clinically, ADCA has been divided into three groups: ADCA types I-III. Defects in this gene are the cause of spinocerebellar ataxia type 2 (SCA2). SCA2 belongs to the autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxias type I (ADCA I) which are characterized by cerebellar ataxia in combination with additional clinical features like optic atrophy, ophthalmoplegia, bulbar and extrapyramidal signs, peripheral neuropathy and dementia. SCA2 is caused by expansion of a CAG repeat in the coding region of this gene. This locus has been mapped to chromosome 12, and it has been determined that the diseased allele contains 37-50 CAG repeats, compared to 17-29 in the normal allele. Longer expansions result in earlier onset of the disease. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified but their full length sequence has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]	ATXN2 (Ataxin 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATXN2 include spinocerebellar ataxia 2 and olivopontocerebellar atrophy. Among its related pathways are Akt Signaling and Parkinsons Disease Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and epidermal growth factor receptor binding. An important paralog of this gene is ATXN2L.	Involved in EGFR trafficking, acting as negative regulator of endocytic EGFR internalization at the plasma membrane.	same
AURKC	This gene encodes a member of the Aurora subfamily of serine/threonine protein kinases. The encoded protein is a chromosomal passenger protein that forms complexes with Aurora-B and inner centromere proteins and may play a role in organizing microtubules in relation to centrosome/spindle function during mitosis. This gene is overexpressed in several cancer cell lines, suggesting an involvement in oncogenic signal transduction. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AURKC (Aurora Kinase C) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AURKC include spermatogenic failure 5 and male infertility due to large-headed multiflagellar polyploid spermatozoa. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and Cell Cycle / Checkpoint Control. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and protein serine/threonine/tyrosine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AURKB.	Serine/threonine-protein kinase component of the chromosomal passenger complex (CPC), a complex that acts as a key regulator of mitosis. The CPC complex has essential functions at the centromere in ensuring correct chromosome alignment and segregation and is required for chromatin-induced microtubule stabilization and spindle assembly. Plays also a role in meiosis and more particularly in spermatogenesis. Has redundant cellular functions with AURKB and can rescue an AURKB knockdown. Like AURKB, AURKC phosphorylates histone H3 at Ser-10 and Ser-28. Phosphorylates TACC1, another protein involved in cell division, at Ser-228.	same
ATRN	Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms exist for this gene. One of the isoforms is a membrane-bound protein with sequence similarity to the mouse mahogany protein, a receptor involved in controlling obesity. The other two isoforms are secreted proteins involved in the initial immune cell clustering during inflammatory responses that may regulate the chemotactic activity of chemokines. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]	ATRN (Attractin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATRN include radioulnar synostosis and obesity. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor activity and carbohydrate binding. An important paralog of this gene is MEGF8.	Involved in the initial immune cell clustering during inflammatory response and may regulate chemotactic activity of chemokines. May play a role in melanocortin signaling pathways that regulate energy homeostasis and hair color. Low-affinity receptor for agouti (By similarity). Has a critical role in normal myelination in the central nervous system (By similarity).	same
ATXN3	Machado-Joseph disease, also known as spinocerebellar ataxia-3, is an autosomal dominant neurologic disorder. The protein encoded by this gene contains (CAG)n repeats in the coding region, and the expansion of these repeats from the normal 13-36 to 68-79 is one cause of Machado-Joseph disease. There is a negative correlation between the age of onset and CAG repeat numbers. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]	ATXN3 (Ataxin 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATXN3 include machado-joseph disease and machado-joseph disease type 1. Among its related pathways are Akt Signaling and Protein processing in endoplasmic reticulum. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and ubiquitin thiolesterase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATXN3L.	Deubiquitinating enzyme involved in protein homeostasis maintenance, transcription, cytoskeleton regulation, myogenesis and degradation of misfolded chaperone substrates. Binds long polyubiquitin chains and trims them, while it has weak or no activity against chains of 4 or less ubiquitins. Involved in degradation of misfolded chaperone substrates via its interaction with STUB1/CHIP: recruited to monoubiquitinated STUB1/CHIP, and restricts the length of ubiquitin chain attached to STUB1/CHIP substrates and preventing further chain extension. In response to misfolded substrate ubiquitination, mediates deubiquitination of monoubiquitinated STUB1/CHIP. Interacts with key regulators of transcription and represses transcription: acts as a histone-binding protein that regulates transcription.	same
AUTS2	This gene has been implicated in neurodevelopment and as a candidate gene for numerous neurological disorders, including autism spectrum disorders, intellectual disability, and developmental delay. Mutations in this gene have also been associated with non-neurological disorders, such as acute lymphoblastic leukemia, aging of the skin, early-onset androgenetic alopecia, and certain cancers. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, May 2014]	AUTS2 (Autism Susceptibility Candidate 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AUTS2 include mental retardation, autosomal dominant 26 and autism spectrum disorder due to auts2 deficiency. An important paralog of this gene is FBRS.	empty	same
AVEN	empty	AVEN (Apoptosis, Caspase Activation Inhibitor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AVEN include schizoid personality disorder and alexithymia. Among its related pathways are Apoptosis and Autophagy.	Protects against apoptosis mediated by Apaf-1	same
AVL9	empty	AVL9 (AVL9 Homolog (S. Cerevisiase)) is a Protein Coding gene.	Functions in cell migration.	same
AVPR1A	The protein encoded by this gene acts as receptor for arginine vasopressin. This receptor belongs to the subfamily of G-protein coupled receptors which includes AVPR1B, V2R and OXT receptors. Its activity is mediated by G proteins which stimulate a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system. The receptor mediates cell contraction and proliferation, platelet aggregation, release of coagulation factor and glycogenolysis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AVPR1A (Arginine Vasopressin Receptor 1A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AVPR1A include atypical autism and adenomyosis. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase C binding and vasopressin receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is AVPR1B.	Receptor for arginine vasopressin. The activity of this receptor is mediated by G proteins which activate a phosphatidyl-inositol-calcium second messenger system. Has been involved in social behaviors, including affiliation and attachment.	same
AVPI1	empty	AVPI1 (Arginine Vasopressin-Induced 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	May be involved in MAP kinase activation, epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) down-regulation and cell cycling.	same
AUH	The methylglutaconyl-CoA hydratase, mitochondrial protein binds to the AU-rich element (ARE), a common element found in the 3' UTR of rapidly decaying mRNA such as c-fos, c-myc and granulocyte/ macrophage colony stimulating factor. ARE elements are involved in directing RNA to rapid degradation and deadenylation. AUH is also homologous to enol-CoA hydratase, an enzyme involved in fatty acid degradation, and has been shown to have intrinsic hydratase enzymatic activity. AUH is thus a bifunctional chimera between RNA binding and metabolic enzyme activity. A possible subcellular localization in the mitochondria has been demonstrated for the mouse homolog of this protein which shares 92% identity with the human protein. It has been suggested that AUH may have a novel role as a mitochondrial located AU-binding protein. Human AUH is expressed as a single mRNA species of 1.8 kb, and translated as a 40-kDa precursor protein which is subsequently processed to a 32-kDa mature form. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	AUH (AU RNA Binding Protein/Enoyl-CoA Hydratase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AUH include 3-methylglutaconic aciduria, type i and leigh-like syndrome. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include mRNA 3-UTR binding and enoyl-CoA hydratase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDY1B.	Catalyzes the conversion of 3-methylglutaconyl-CoA to 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA. Has very low enoyl-CoA hydratase activity. Was originally identified as RNA-binding protein that binds in vitro to clustered 5-AUUUA-3 motifs.	same
AVP	This gene encodes a precursor protein consisting of arginine vasopressin and two associated proteins, neurophysin 2 and a glycopeptide, copeptin. Arginine vasopressin is a posterior pituitary hormone which is synthesized in the supraoptic nucleus and paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. Along with its carrier protein, neurophysin 2, it is packaged into neurosecretory vesicles and transported axonally to the nerve endings in the neurohypophysis where it is either stored or secreted into the bloodstream. The precursor is thought to be activated while it is being transported along the axon to the posterior pituitary. Arginine vasopressin acts as a growth factor by enhancing pH regulation through acid-base transport systems. It has a direct antidiuretic action on the kidney, and also causes vasoconstriction of the peripheral vessels. This hormone can contract smooth muscle during parturition and lactation. It is also involved in cognition, tolerance, adaptation and complex sexual and maternal behaviour, as well as in the regulation of water excretion and cardiovascular functions. Mutations in this gene cause autosomal dominant neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus (ADNDI). [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]	AVP (Arginine Vasopressin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AVP include diabetes insipidus, neurohypophyseal and hereditary central diabetes insipidus. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and protein kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is OXT.	Neurophysin 2 specifically binds vasopressin	same
AWAT1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the diacylglycerol acyltransferase family. It esterifies long chain (wax) alcohols with acyl-CoA-derived fatty acids to produce wax esters. Wax esters are enriched in sebum, suggesting that this enzyme plays a central role in lipid metabolism in skin. Consistent with this observation, this protein is predominantly expressed in the sebaceous gland of the skin. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]	AWAT1 (Acyl-CoA Wax Alcohol Acyltransferase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include long-chain-alcohol O-fatty-acyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is MOGAT2.	Acyltransferase that predominantly esterify long chain (wax) alcohols with acyl-CoA-derived fatty acids to produce wax esters. Wax esters are enriched in sebum, suggesting that it plays a central role in lipid metabolism in skin. Has a preference for arachidyl alcohol as well as decyl alcohol, demonstrating its relatively poor activity using saturated long chain alcohols (C16, C18, and C20).	same
ATXN7	The autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxias (ADCA) are a heterogeneous group of neurodegenerative disorders characterized by progressive degeneration of the cerebellum, brain stem and spinal cord. Clinically, ADCA has been divided into three groups: ADCA types I-III. ADCAI is genetically heterogeneous, with five genetic loci, designated spinocerebellar ataxia (SCA) 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6, being assigned to five different chromosomes. ADCAII, which always presents with retinal degeneration (SCA7), and ADCAIII often referred to as the 'pure' cerebellar syndrome (SCA5), are most likely homogeneous disorders. Several SCA genes have been cloned and shown to contain CAG repeats in their coding regions. ADCA is caused by the expansion of the CAG repeats, producing an elongated polyglutamine tract in the corresponding protein. The expanded repeats are variable in size and unstable, usually increasing in size when transmitted to successive generations. This locus has been mapped to chromosome 3, and it has been determined that the diseased allele associated with spinocerebellar ataxia-7 contains 38-130 CAG repeats (near the N-terminus), compared to 7-17 in the normal allele. The encoded protein is a component of the SPT3/TAF9/GCN5 acetyltransferase (STAGA) and TBP-free TAF-containing (TFTC) chromatin remodeling complexes, and it thus plays a role in transcriptional regulation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]	ATXN7 (Ataxin 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATXN7 include spinocerebellar ataxia 7 and cerebellar disease. Among its related pathways are Akt Signaling and RNA Polymerase I Promoter Opening. GO annotations related to this gene include chromatin binding. An important paralog of this gene is ATXN7L2.	Acts as component of the STAGA transcription coactivator-HAT complex. Mediates the interaction of STAGA complex with the CRX and is involved in CRX-dependent gene activation. Necessary for microtubule cytoskeleton stabilization.	same
AWAT2	This gene encodes an enzyme belonging to the diacylglycerol acyltransferase family. This enzyme produces wax esters by the esterification of long chain (or wax) alcohols with acyl-CoA-derived fatty acids. It functions in lipid metabolism in the skin, mostly in undifferentiated peripheral sebocytes. This enzyme may also have acyl-CoA:retinol acyltransferase activities, where it catalyzes the synthesis of diacylglycerols and retinyl esters. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	AWAT2 (Acyl-CoA Wax Alcohol Acyltransferase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Vitamin A and carotenoid metabolism and Vitamin digestion and absorption. GO annotations related to this gene include retinol O-fatty-acyltransferase activity and long-chain-alcohol O-fatty-acyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is MOGAT2.	Acyltransferase that predominantly esterify long chain (wax) alcohols with acyl-CoA-derived fatty acids to produce wax esters. Wax esters are enriched in sebum, suggesting that it plays a central role in lipid metabolism in skin. Has no activity using decyl alcohol and significantly prefers the C16 and C18 alcohols. May also have 2-acylglycerol O-acyltransferase (MGAT) and acyl-CoA:retinol acyltransferase (ARAT) activities, to catalyze the synthesis of diacylglycerols and retinyl esters; however this activity is unclear in vivo.	same
AXIN2	The Axin-related protein, Axin2, presumably plays an important role in the regulation of the stability of beta-catenin in the Wnt signaling pathway, like its rodent homologs, mouse conductin/rat axil. In mouse, conductin organizes a multiprotein complex of APC (adenomatous polyposis of the colon), beta-catenin, glycogen synthase kinase 3-beta, and conductin, which leads to the degradation of beta-catenin. Apparently, the deregulation of beta-catenin is an important event in the genesis of a number of malignancies. The AXIN2 gene has been mapped to 17q23-q24, a region that shows frequent loss of heterozygosity in breast cancer, neuroblastoma, and other tumors. Mutations in this gene have been associated with colorectal cancer with defective mismatch repair. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AXIN2 (Axin 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AXIN2 include oligodontia-colorectal cancer syndrome and oligodontia - cancer predisposition syndrome. Among its related pathways are Pathways in cancer and Neural Crest Differentiation. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and enzyme binding. An important paralog of this gene is AXIN1.	Inhibitor of the Wnt signaling pathway. Down-regulates beta-catenin. Probably facilitate the phosphorylation of beta-catenin and APC by GSK3B (By similarity).	same
AURKB	This gene encodes a member of the aurora kinase subfamily of serine/threonine kinases. The genes encoding the other two members of this subfamily are located on chromosomes 19 and 20. These kinases participate in the regulation of segregation of chromosomes during mitosis and meiosis through association with microtubules. A pseudogene of this gene is located on chromosome 8. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]	AURKB (Aurora Kinase B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AURKB include neuroblastoma, susceptibility and giant cell glioblastoma. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and protein serine/threonine/tyrosine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AURKC.	Serine/threonine-protein kinase component of the chromosomal passenger complex (CPC), a complex that acts as a key regulator of mitosis. The CPC complex has essential functions at the centromere in ensuring correct chromosome alignment and segregation and is required for chromatin-induced microtubule stabilization and spindle assembly. Involved in the bipolar attachment of spindle microtubules to kinetochores and is a key regulator for the onset of cytokinesis during mitosis. Required for central/midzone spindle assembly and cleavage furrow formation. Key component of the cytokinesis checkpoint, a process required to delay abscission to prevent both premature resolution of intercellular chromosome bridges and accumulation of DNA damage: phosphorylates CHMP4C, leading to retain abscission-competent VPS4 (VPS4A and/or VPS4B) at the midbody ring until abscission checkpoint signaling is terminated at late cytokinesis (PubMed:22422861, PubMed:24814515). AURKB phosphorylates the CPC complex subunits BIRC5/survivin, CDCA8/borealin and INCENP. Phosphorylation of INCENP leads to increased AURKB activity. Other known AURKB substrates involved in centromeric functions and mitosis are CENPA, DES/desmin, GPAF, KIF2C, NSUN2, RACGAP1, SEPT1, VIM/vimentin, GSG2/Haspin, and histone H3. A positive feedback loop involving GSG2 and AURKB contributes to localization of CPC to centromeres. Phosphorylation of VIM controls vimentin filament segregation in cytokinetic process, whereas histone H3 is phosphorylated at Ser-10 and Ser-28 during mitosis (H3S10ph and H3S28ph, respectively). A positive feedback between GSG2 and AURKB contributes to CPC localization. AURKB is also required for kinetochore localization of BUB1 and SGOL1. Phosphorylation of p53/TP53 negatively regulates its transcriptional activity. Key regulator of active promoters in resting B- and T-lymphocytes: acts by mediating phosphorylation of H3S28ph at active promoters in resting B-cells, inhibiting RNF2/RING1B-mediated ubiquitination of histone H2A and enhancing binding and activity of the USP16 deubiquitinase at transcribed genes.	same
AXIN1	This gene encodes a cytoplasmic protein which contains a regulation of G-protein signaling (RGS) domain and a dishevelled and axin (DIX) domain. The encoded protein interacts with adenomatosis polyposis coli, catenin beta-1, glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta, protein phosphate 2, and itself. This protein functions as a negative regulator of the wingless-type MMTV integration site family, member 1 (WNT) signaling pathway and can induce apoptosis. The crystal structure of a portion of this protein, alone and in a complex with other proteins, has been resolved. Mutations in this gene have been associated with hepatocellular carcinoma, hepatoblastomas, ovarian endometriod adenocarcinomas, and medullablastomas. Two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]	AXIN1 (Axin 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AXIN1 include hepatocellular carcinoma and caudal duplication anomaly. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Pathways in cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and protein kinase binding. An important paralog of this gene is AXIN2.	Component of the beta-catenin destruction complex required for regulating CTNNB1 levels through phosphorylation and ubiquitination, and modulating Wnt-signaling. Controls dorsoventral patterning via two opposing effects; down-regulates CTNNB1 to inhibit the Wnt signaling pathway and ventralize embryos, but also dorsalizes embryos by activating a Wnt-independent JNK signaling pathway. In Wnt signaling, probably facilitates the phosphorylation of CTNNB1 and APC by GSK3B. Likely to function as a tumor suppressor. Facilitates the phosphorylation of TP53 by HIPK2 upon ultraviolet irradiation. Enhances TGF-beta signaling by recruiting the RNF111 E3 ubiquitin ligase and promoting the degradation of inhibitory SMAD7. Also component of the AXIN1-HIPK2-TP53 complex which controls cell growth, apoptosis and development.	same
AVPR2	This gene encodes the vasopressin receptor, type 2, also known as the V2 receptor, which belongs to the seven-transmembrane-domain G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) superfamily, and couples to Gs thus stimulating adenylate cyclase. The subfamily that includes the V2 receptor, the V1a and V1b vasopressin receptors, the oxytocin receptor, and isotocin and mesotocin receptors in non-mammals, is well conserved, though several members signal via other G proteins. All bind similar cyclic nonapeptide hormones. The V2 receptor is expressed in the kidney tubule, predominantly in the distal convoluted tubule and collecting ducts, where its primary property is to respond to the pituitary hormone arginine vasopressin (AVP) by stimulating mechanisms that concentrate the urine and maintain water homeostasis in the organism. When the function of this gene is lost, the disease Nephrogenic Diabetes Insipidus (NDI) results. The V2 receptor is also expressed outside the kidney although its tissue localization is uncertain. When these 'extrarenal receptors' are stimulated by infusion of a V2 selective agonist (dDAVP), a variety of clotting factors are released into the bloodstream. The physiologic importance of this property is not known - its absence does not appear to be detrimental in NDI patients. The gene expression has also been described in fetal lung tissue and lung cancer associated with alternative splicing. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AVPR2 (Arginine Vasopressin Receptor 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AVPR2 include nephrogenic syndrome of inappropriate antidiuresis and diabetes insipidus, nephrogenic. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include vasopressin receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is AVPR1B.	Receptor for arginine vasopressin. The activity of this receptor is mediated by G proteins which activate adenylate cyclase. Involved in renal water reabsorption.	same
AZGP1	empty	AZGP1 (Alpha-2-Glycoprotein 1, Zinc-Binding) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AZGP1 include prostate cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include antigen binding and ribonuclease activity. An important paralog of this gene is MR1.	Stimulates lipid degradation in adipocytes and causes the extensive fat losses associated with some advanced cancers. May bind polyunsaturated fatty acids	same
AXL	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Tyro3-Axl-Mer (TAM) receptor tyrosine kinase subfamily. The encoded protein possesses an extracellular domain which is composed of two immunoglobulin-like motifs at the N-terminal, followed by two fibronectin type-III motifs. It transduces signals from the extracellular matrix into the cytoplasm by binding to the vitamin K-dependent protein growth arrest-specific 6 (Gas6). This gene may be involved in several cellular functions including growth, migration, aggregation and anti-inflammation in multiple cell types. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants of this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]	AXL (AXL Receptor Tyrosine Kinase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AXL include critical limb ischemia and limb ischemia. Among its related pathways are GPCR Pathway and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include protein heterodimerization activity and phosphatidylserine binding. An important paralog of this gene is MET.	Receptor tyrosine kinase that transduces signals from the extracellular matrix into the cytoplasm by binding growth factor GAS6 and which is thus regulating many physiological processes including cell survival, cell proliferation, migration and differentiation. Ligand binding at the cell surface induces dimerization and autophosphorylation of AXL. Following activation by ligand, ALX binds and induces tyrosine phosphorylation of PI3-kinase subunits PIK3R1, PIK3R2 and PIK3R3; but also GRB2, PLCG1, LCK and PTPN11. Other downstream substrate candidates for AXL are CBL, NCK2, SOCS1 and TNS2. Recruitment of GRB2 and phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase regulatory subunits by AXL leads to the downstream activation of the AKT kinase. GAS6/AXL signaling plays a role in various processes such as endothelial cell survival during acidification by preventing apoptosis, optimal cytokine signaling during human natural killer cell development, hepatic regeneration, gonadotropin-releasing hormone neuron survival and migration, platelet activation, or regulation of thrombotic responses. Plays also an important role in inhibition of Toll-like receptors (TLRs)-mediated innate immune response. In case of filovirus infection, seems to function as a cell entry factor.	same
AZI1	empty	CEP131 (Centrosomal Protein 131kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic.	Component of centriolar satellites contributing to build a complex and dynamic network required to regulate cilia/flagellum formation. In proliferating cells, MIB1-mediated ubiquitination induces its sequestration within centriolar satellites, precluding untimely cilia formation initiation. In contrast, during normal and ultraviolet or heat shock cellular stress-induced ciliogenesis, its non-ubiquitinated form is rapidly displaced from centriolar satellites and recruited to centrosome/basal bodies in a microtubule- and p38 MAPK-dependent manner. Acts also as a negative regulator of BBSome ciliary trafficking. Plays a role in sperm flagellar formation; may be involved in the regulation of intraflagellar transport (IFT) and/or intramanchette (IMT) trafficking, which are important for axoneme extension and/or cargo delivery to the nascent sperm tail. Required for optimal cell proliferation and cell cycle progression; may play a role in the regulation of genome stability and centriole duplication in non-ciliogenic cells.	diff
AZI2	AZI2, or NAP1, contributes to the activation of NFKB (see MIM 164011)-dependent gene expression by activating IKK-related kinases, such as NAK (TBK1; MIM 604834) (Fujita et al., 2003 [PubMed 14560022]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	AZI2 (5-Azacytidine Induced 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are TNF-alpha/NF-kB Signaling Pathway and RIG-I/MDA5 mediated induction of IFN-alpha/beta pathways.	Adapter protein which binds TBK1 and IKBKE playing a role in antiviral innate immunity. Activates serine/threonine-protein kinase TBK1 and facilitates its oligomerization. Enhances the phosphorylation of NF-kappa-B p65 subunit RELA by TBK1. Promotes TBK1-induced as well as TNF-alpha or PMA-induced activation of NF-kappa-B. Participates in IFNB promoter activation via TICAM1.	same
AZIN1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the antizyme inhibitor family, which plays a role in cell growth and proliferation by maintaining polyamine homeostasis within the cell. Antizyme inhibitors are homologs of ornithine decarboxylase (ODC, the key enzyme in polyamine biosynthesis) that have lost the ability to decarboxylase ornithine; however, retain the ability to bind to antizymes. Antizymes negatively regulate intracellular polyamine levels by binding to ODC and targeting it for degradation, as well as by inhibiting polyamine uptake. Antizyme inhibitors function as positive regulators of polyamine levels by sequestering antizymes and neutralizing their effect. This gene encodes antizyme inhibitor 1, the first member of this gene family that is ubiquitously expressed, and is localized in the nucleus and cytoplasm. Overexpression of antizyme inhibitor 1 gene has been associated with increased proliferation, cellular transformation and tumorigenesis. Gene knockout studies showed that homozygous mutant mice lacking functional antizyme inhibitor 1 gene died at birth with abnormal liver morphology. RNA editing of this gene, predominantly in the liver tissue, has been linked to the progression of hepatocellular carcinoma. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	AZIN1 (Antizyme Inhibitor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism of amino acids and derivatives. GO annotations related to this gene include enzyme inhibitor activity and ornithine decarboxylase activator activity. An important paralog of this gene is AZIN2.	Antizyme inhibitor protein that positively regulates ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity and polyamine uptake by counteracting the negative effect of antizyme OAZ1, OAZ2 and OAZ3 on ODC1 activity (PubMed:17900240). Inhibits antizyme-dependent ODC degradation by binding to antizymes. Releases ODC1 from its inactive complex with antizymes, leading to formation of the catalytically active ODC1.	same
AVIL	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the gelsolin/villin family of actin regulatory proteins. This protein has structural similarity to villin. It binds actin and may play a role in the development of neuronal cells that form ganglia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AVIL (Advillin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AVIL include lennox-gastaut syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding. An important paralog of this gene is VIL1.	Ca(2+)-regulated actin-binding protein. May have a unique function in the morphogenesis of neuronal cells which form ganglia. Required for SREC1-mediated regulation of neurite-like outgrowth. Plays a role in regenerative sensory axon outgrowth and remodeling processes after peripheral injury in neonates. Involved in the formation of long fine actin-containing filopodia-like structures in fibroblast. Plays a role in ciliogenesis.	same
B3GALT1	This gene is a member of the beta-1,3-galactosyltransferase (beta3GalT) gene family. This family encodes type II membrane-bound glycoproteins with diverse enzymatic functions using different donor substrates (UDP-galactose and UDP-N-acetylglucosamine) and different acceptor sugars (N-acetylglucosamine, galactose, N-acetylgalactosamine). The beta3GalT genes are distantly related to the Drosophila Brainiac gene and have the protein coding sequence contained in a single exon. The beta3GalT proteins also contain conserved sequences not found in the beta4GalT or alpha3GalT proteins. The carbohydrate chains synthesized by these enzymes are designated as type 1, whereas beta4GalT enzymes synthesize type 2 carbohydrate chains. The ratio of type 1:type 2 chains changes during embryogenesis. By sequence similarity, the beta3GalT genes fall into at least two groups: beta3GalT4 and 4 other beta3GalT genes (beta3GalT1-3, beta3GalT5). This gene is expressed exclusively in the brain. The encoded protein shows strict donor substrate specificity for UDP-galactose. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	B3GALT1 (UDP-Gal:BetaGlcNAc Beta 1,3-Galactosyltransferase, Polypeptide 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Glycosphingolipid biosynthesis - lacto and neolacto series. GO annotations related to this gene include UDP-galactose:beta-N-acetylglucosamine beta-1,3-galactosyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is B3GNT5.	Beta-1,3-galactosyltransferase that transfers galactose from UDP-galactose to substrates with a terminal beta-N-acetylglucosamine (beta-GlcNAc) residue. Involved in the biosynthesis of the carbohydrate moieties of glycolipids and glycoproteins. Inactive towards substrates with terminal alpha-N-acetylglucosamine (alpha-GlcNAc) or alpha-N-acetylgalactosamine (alpha-GalNAc) residues.	same
AZU1	Azurophil granules, specialized lysosomes of the neutrophil, contain at least 10 proteins implicated in the killing of microorganisms. The protein encoded by this gene is an azurophil granule antibiotic protein, with monocyte chemotactic and antimicrobial activity. It is also an important multifunctional inflammatory mediator. This encoded protein is a member of the serine protease gene family but it is not a serine proteinase, because the active site serine and histidine residues are replaced. The genes encoding this protein, neutrophil elastase 2, and proteinase 3 are in a cluster located at chromosome 19pter. All 3 genes are expressed coordinately and their protein products are packaged together into azurophil granules during neutrophil differentiation. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2014]	AZU1 (Azurocidin 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AZU1 include cornea cancer and erysipelas. GO annotations related to this gene include serine-type endopeptidase activity and toxic substance binding. An important paralog of this gene is ELANE.	This is a neutrophil granule-derived antibacterial and monocyte- and fibroblast-specific chemotactic glycoprotein. Binds heparin. The cytotoxic action is limited to many species of Gram-negative bacteria; this specificity may be explained by a strong affinity of the very basic N-terminal half for the negatively charged lipopolysaccharides that are unique to the Gram-negative bacterial outer envelope. It may play a role in mediating recruitment of monocytes in the second wave of inflammation. Has antibacterial activity against the Gram-nagative bacterium P.aeruginosa, this activity is inhibited by LPS from P.aeruginosa. Acting alone, it does not have antimicrobial activity against the Gram-negative bacteria A.actinomycetemcomitans ATCC 29532, A.actinomycetemcomitans NCTC 9709, A.actinomycetemcomitans FDC-Y4, H.aphrophilus ATCC 13252, E.corrodens ATCC 23834, C.sputigena ATCC 33123, Capnocytophaga sp ATCC 33124, Capnocytophaga sp ATCC 27872 or E.coli ML-35. Has antibacterial activity against C.sputigena ATCC 33123 when acting synergistically with either elastase or cathepsin G.	same
B3GALNT2	This gene encodes a member of the glycosyltransferase 31 family. The encoded protein synthesizes GalNAc:beta-1,3GlcNAc, a novel carbohydrate structure, on N- and O-glycans. Alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2013]	B3GALNT2 (Beta-1,3-N-Acetylgalactosaminyltransferase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with B3GALNT2 include muscular dystrophy-dystroglycanopathy (congenital with brain and eye anomalies, type a, 11 and muscle eye brain disease. GO annotations related to this gene include galactosyltransferase activity and acetylgalactosaminyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is B3GALT6.	Beta-1,3-N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase that synthesizes a unique carbohydrate structure, GalNAc-beta-1-3GlcNAc, on N- and O-glycans. Has no galactose nor galactosaminyl transferase activity toward any acceptor substrate. Involved in alpha-dystroglycan (DAG1) glycosylation: acts coordinately with GTDC2/POMGnT2 to synthesize a GalNAc-beta3-GlcNAc-beta-terminus at the 4-position of protein O-mannose in the biosynthesis of the phosphorylated O-mannosyl trisaccharide (N-acetylgalactosamine-beta-3-N-acetylglucosamine-beta-4-(phosphate-6-)mannose), a carbohydrate structure present in alpha-dystroglycan, which is required for binding laminin G-like domain-containing extracellular proteins with high affinity.	same
B3GALT2	This gene is a member of the beta-1,3-galactosyltransferase (beta3GalT) gene family. This family encodes type II membrane-bound glycoproteins with diverse enzymatic functions using different donor substrates (UDP-galactose and UDP-N-acetylglucosamine) and different acceptor sugars (N-acetylglucosamine, galactose, N-acetylgalactosamine). The beta3GalT genes are distantly related to the Drosophila Brainiac gene and have the protein coding sequence contained in a single exon. The beta3GalT proteins also contain conserved sequences not found in the beta4GalT or alpha3GalT proteins. The carbohydrate chains synthesized by these enzymes are designated as type 1, whereas beta4GalT enzymes synthesize type 2 carbohydrate chains. The ratio of type 1:type 2 chains changes during embryogenesis. By sequence similarity, the beta3GalT genes fall into at least two groups: beta3GalT4 and 4 other beta3GalT genes (beta3GalT1-3, beta3GalT5). This gene encodes a protein that functions in N-linked glycoprotein glycosylation and shows strict donor substrate specificity for UDP-galactose. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	B3GALT2 (UDP-Gal:BetaGlcNAc Beta 1,3-Galactosyltransferase, Polypeptide 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Glycosphingolipid biosynthesis - lacto and neolacto series. GO annotations related to this gene include UDP-galactose:beta-N-acetylglucosamine beta-1,3-galactosyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is B3GNT5.	Beta-1,3-galactosyltransferase that transfers galactose from UDP-galactose to substrates with a terminal beta-N-acetylglucosamine (beta-GlcNAc) residue. Can also utilize substrates with a terminal galactose residue, albeit with lower efficiency. Involved in the biosynthesis of the carbohydrate moieties of glycolipids and glycoproteins. Inactive towards substrates with terminal alpha-N-acetylglucosamine (alpha-GlcNAc) or alpha-N-acetylgalactosamine (alpha-GalNAc) residues.	same
B2M	This gene encodes a serum protein found in association with the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I heavy chain on the surface of nearly all nucleated cells. The protein has a predominantly beta-pleated sheet structure that can form amyloid fibrils in some pathological conditions. The encoded antimicrobial protein displays antibacterial activity in amniotic fluid. A mutation in this gene has been shown to result in hypercatabolic hypoproteinemia.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2014]	B2M (Beta-2-Microglobulin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with B2M include hypoproteinemia, hypercatabolic and autosomal dominant beta2-microglobulinic amyloidosis. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding.	Component of the class I major histocompatibility complex (MHC). Involved in the presentation of peptide antigens to the immune system	same
B3GALTL	The protein encoded by this gene is a beta-1,3-glucosyltransferase that transfers glucose to O-linked fucosylglycans on thrombospondin type-1 repeats (TSRs) of several proteins. The encoded protein is a type II membrane protein. Defects in this gene are a cause of Peters-plus syndrome (PPS).[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]	B3GALTL (Beta 1,3-Galactosyltransferase-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with B3GALTL include peters anomaly. Among its related pathways are Other types of O-glycan biosynthesis. GO annotations related to this gene include transferase activity, transferring glycosyl groups.	O-fucosyltransferase that transfers glucose toward fucose with a beta-1,3 linkage. Specifically glucosylates O-linked fucosylglycan on TSP type-1 domains of proteins, thereby contributing to elongation of O-fucosylglycan.	same
B3GALT5	This gene encodes a member of a family of membrane-bound glycoproteins. The encoded protein may synthesize type 1 Lewis antigens, which are elevated in gastrointestinal and pancreatic cancers. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene, but the full-length nature of some of these variants has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]	B3GALT5 (UDP-Gal:BetaGlcNAc Beta 1,3-Galactosyltransferase, Polypeptide 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Glycosphingolipid biosynthesis - lacto and neolacto series. GO annotations related to this gene include UDP-galactose:beta-N-acetylglucosamine beta-1,3-galactosyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is B3GNT5.	Catalyzes the transfer of Gal to GlcNAc-based acceptors with a preference for the core3 O-linked glycan GlcNAc(beta1,3)GalNAc structure. Can use glycolipid LC3Cer as an efficient acceptor	same
B3GAT1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the glucuronyltransferase gene family. These enzymes exhibit strict acceptor specificity, recognizing nonreducing terminal sugars and their anomeric linkages. This gene product functions as the key enzyme in a glucuronyl transfer reaction during the biosynthesis of the carbohydrate epitope HNK-1 (human natural killer-1, also known as CD57 and LEU7). Alternate transcriptional splice variants have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	B3GAT1 (Beta-1,3-Glucuronyltransferase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with B3GAT1 include natural killer cell leukemia and ossifying fibromyxoid tumor. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include UDP-galactose:beta-N-acetylglucosamine beta-1,3-galactosyltransferase activity and galactosylgalactosylxylosylprotein 3-beta-glucuronosyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is B3GAT2.	Involved in the biosynthesis of L2/HNK-1 carbohydrate epitope on glycoproteins. Can also play a role in glycosaminoglycan biosynthesis. Substrates include asialo-orosomucoid (ASOR), asialo-fetuin, and asialo-neural cell adhesion molecule. Requires sphingomyelin for activity: stearoyl-sphingomyelin was the most effective, followed by palmitoyl-sphingomyelin and lignoceroyl-sphingomyelin. Activity was demonstrated only for sphingomyelin with a saturated fatty acid and not for that with an unsaturated fatty acid, regardless of the length of the acyl group (By similarity).	same
B3GNT1	empty	empty	empty	same
B3GNT2	This gene encodes a member of the beta-1,3-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase family. This enzyme is a type II transmembrane protein. It prefers the substrate of lacto-N-neotetraose, and is involved in the biosynthesis of poly-N-acetyllactosamine chains. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	B3GNT2 (UDP-GlcNAc:BetaGal Beta-1,3-N-Acetylglucosaminyltransferase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include UDP-galactose:beta-N-acetylglucosamine beta-1,3-galactosyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is B3GNT5.	Beta-1,3-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase involved in the synthesis of poly-N-acetyllactosamine. Catalyzes the initiation and elongation of poly-N-acetyllactosamine chains. Shows a marked preference for Gal(beta1-4)Glc(NAc)-based acceptors (PubMed:9892646). Probably constitutes the main polylactosamine synthase.	same
B3GAT3	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the glucuronyltransferase gene family, enzymes that exhibit strict acceptor specificity, recognizing nonreducing terminal sugars and their anomeric linkages. This gene product catalyzes the formation of the glycosaminoglycan-protein linkage by way of a glucuronyl transfer reaction in the final step of the biosynthesis of the linkage region of proteoglycans. A pseudogene of this gene has been identified on chromosome 3. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2013]	B3GAT3 (Beta-1,3-Glucuronyltransferase 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with B3GAT3 include multiple joint dislocations, short stature, craniofacial dysmorphism, and congenital heart defects and larsen-like syndrome, b3gat3 type. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include manganese ion binding and galactosylgalactosylxylosylprotein 3-beta-glucuronosyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is B3GAT1.	Glycosaminoglycans biosynthesis. Involved in forming the linkage tetrasaccharide present in heparan sulfate and chondroitin sulfate. Transfers a glucuronic acid moiety from the uridine diphosphate-glucuronic acid (UDP-GlcUA) to the common linkage region trisaccharide Gal-beta-1,3-Gal-beta-1,4-Xyl covalently bound to a Ser residue at the glycosaminylglycan attachment site of proteoglycans. Can also play a role in the biosynthesis of l2/HNK-1 carbohydrate epitope on glycoproteins. Shows strict specificity for Gal-beta-1,3-Gal-beta-1,4-Xyl, exhibiting negligible incorporation into other galactoside substrates including Galbeta1-3Gal beta1-O-benzyl, Galbeta1-4GlcNAc and Galbeta1-4Glc. Stimulates 2-phosphoxylose phosphatase activity of PXYLP1 in presence of uridine diphosphate-glucuronic acid (UDP-GlcUA) during completion of linkage region formation.	same
B3GNT3	This gene encodes a member of the beta-1,3-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase family. This enzyme is a type II transmembrane protein and contains a signal anchor that is not cleaved. It prefers the substrates of lacto-N-tetraose and lacto-N-neotetraose, and is involved in the biosynthesis of poly-N-acetyllactosamine chains and the biosynthesis of the backbone structure of dimeric sialyl Lewis a. It plays dominant roles in L-selectin ligand biosynthesis, lymphocyte homing and lymphocyte trafficking. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	B3GNT3 (UDP-GlcNAc:BetaGal Beta-1,3-N-Acetylglucosaminyltransferase 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include galactosyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is B3GNT5.	Beta-1,3-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase involved in the synthesis of poly-N-acetyllactosamine. Has activity for type 2 oligosaccharides (PubMed:11042166). Also acts as a core1-1,3-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase (Core1-beta3GlcNAcT) to form the 6-sulfo sialyl Lewis x on extended core1 O-glycans (PubMed:11439191).	same
B3GNT4	This gene encodes a member of the beta-1,3-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase protein family. The encoded enzyme is involved in the biosynthesis of poly-N-acetyllactosamine chains and prefers lacto-N-neotetraose as a substrate. It is a type II transmembrane protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	B3GNT4 (UDP-GlcNAc:BetaGal Beta-1,3-N-Acetylglucosaminyltransferase 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with B3GNT4 include mucopolysaccharidoses. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include galactosyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is B3GNT5.	Beta-1,3-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase involved in the synthesis of poly-N-acetyllactosamine. Has activity for type 2 oligosaccharides.	same
B3GALNT1	This gene is a member of the beta-1,3-galactosyltransferase (beta3GalT) gene family. This family encodes type II membrane-bound glycoproteins with diverse enzymatic functions using different donor substrates (UDP-galactose and UDP-N-acetylglucosamine) and different acceptor sugars (N-acetylglucosamine, galactose, N-acetylgalactosamine). The beta3GalT genes are distantly related to the Drosophila Brainiac gene and have the protein coding sequence contained in a single exon. The beta3GalT proteins also contain conserved sequences not found in the beta4GalT or alpha3GalT proteins. The carbohydrate chains synthesized by these enzymes are designated as type 1, whereas beta4GalT enzymes synthesize type 2 carbohydrate chains. The ratio of type 1:type 2 chains changes during embryogenesis. By sequence similarity, the beta3GalT genes fall into at least two groups: beta3GalT4 and 4 other beta3GalT genes (beta3GalT1-3, beta3GalT5). The encoded protein of this gene does not use N-acetylglucosamine as an acceptor sugar at all. Multiple transcript variants that are alternatively spliced in the 5' UTR have been described; they all encode the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	B3GALNT1 (Beta-1,3-N-Acetylgalactosaminyltransferase 1 (Globoside Blood Group)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with B3GALNT1 include nor polyagglutination syndrome. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Glycosphingolipid biosynthesis - globo series. GO annotations related to this gene include UDP-galactose:beta-N-acetylglucosamine beta-1,3-galactosyltransferase activity and galactosylgalactosylglucosylceramide beta-D-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is B3GNT5.	Transfers N-acetylgalactosamine onto globotriaosylceramide.	same
AVPR1B	The protein encoded by this gene acts as receptor for arginine vasopressin. This receptor belongs to the subfamily of G-protein coupled receptors which includes AVPR1A, V2R and OXT receptors. Its activity is mediated by G proteins which stimulate a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system. The receptor is primarily located in the anterior pituitary, where it stimulates ACTH release. It is expressed at high levels in ACTH-secreting pituitary adenomas as well as in bronchial carcinoids responsible for the ectopic ACTH syndrome. A spliced antisense transcript of this gene has been reported but its function is not known. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	AVPR1B (Arginine Vasopressin Receptor 1B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AVPR1B include melancholia and acth-independent macronodular adrenal hyperplasia. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase C binding and vasopressin receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is NPSR1.	Receptor for arginine vasopressin. The activity of this receptor is mediated by G proteins which activate a phosphatidyl-inositol-calcium second messenger system	same
B3GNTL1	empty	B3GNTL1 (UDP-GlcNAc:BetaGal Beta-1,3-N-Acetylglucosaminyltransferase-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein. GO annotations related to this gene include transferase activity, transferring glycosyl groups.	Putative glycosyltransferase.	same
B3GNT5	This gene encodes a member of the beta-1,3-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase family. This enzyme is a type II membrane protein. It exhibits strong activity to transfer GlcNAc to glycolipid substrates and is identified as the most likely candidate for lactotriaosylceramide synthase. This enzyme is essential for the expression of Lewis X epitopes on glycolipids. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	B3GNT5 (UDP-GlcNAc:BetaGal Beta-1,3-N-Acetylglucosaminyltransferase 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein. GO annotations related to this gene include galactosyltransferase activity and lipopolysaccharide N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is B3GALT2.	Beta-1,3-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase that plays a key role in the synthesis of lacto- or neolacto-series carbohydrate chains on glycolipids, notably by participating in biosynthesis of HNK-1 and Lewis X carbohydrate structures. Has strong activity toward lactosylceramide (LacCer) and neolactotetraosylceramide (nLc(4)Cer; paragloboside), resulting in the synthesis of Lc(3)Cer and neolactopentaosylceramide (nLc(5)Cer), respectively. Probably plays a central role in regulating neolacto-series glycolipid synthesis during embryonic development	same
B4GALNT1	GM2 and GD2 gangliosides are sialic acid-containing glycosphingolipids. GalNAc-T is the enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of G(M2) and G(D2) glycosphingolipids. GalNAc-T catalyzes the transfer of GalNAc into G(M3) and G(D3) by a beta-1,4 linkage, resulting in the synthesis of G(M2) and G(D2), respectively. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2013]	B4GALNT1 (Beta-1,4-N-Acetyl-Galactosaminyl Transferase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with B4GALNT1 include spastic paraplegia 26, autosomal recessive and spastic paraplegia 26. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Glycosphingolipid biosynthesis - ganglio series. GO annotations related to this gene include (N-acetylneuraminyl)-galactosylglucosylceramide N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is B4GALNT2.	Involved in the biosynthesis of gangliosides GM2, GD2 and GA2	same
B3GALT6	The enzyme encoded by this intronless gene is a beta-1,3-galactosyltransferase found in the medial Golgi apparatus, where it catalyzes the transfer of galactose from UDP-galactose to substrates containing a terminal beta-linked galactose moiety. The encoded enzyme has a particular affinity for galactose-beta-1,4-xylose found in the linker region of glycosamines. This enzyme is required for glycosaminoglycan synthesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2013]	B3GALT6 (UDP-Gal:BetaGal Beta 1,3-Galactosyltransferase Polypeptide 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with B3GALT6 include spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia with joint laxity, type 1, with or without fractures and ehlers-danlos syndrome, progeroid type, 2. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include UDP-galactose:beta-N-acetylglucosamine beta-1,3-galactosyltransferase activity and galactosylxylosylprotein 3-beta-galactosyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is B3GALNT2.	Beta-1,3-galactosyltransferase that transfers galactose from UDP-galactose to substrates with a terminal beta-linked galactose residue. Has a preference for galactose-beta-1,4-xylose that is found in the linker region of glycosaminoglycans, such as heparan sulfate and chondroitin sulfate. Has no activity towards substrates with terminal glucosamine or galactosamine residues.	same
ATXN1	The autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxias (ADCA) are a heterogeneous group of neurodegenerative disorders characterized by progressive degeneration of the cerebellum, brain stem and spinal cord. Clinically, ADCA has been divided into three groups: ADCA types I-III. ADCAI is genetically heterogeneous, with five genetic loci, designated spinocerebellar ataxia (SCA) 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6, being assigned to five different chromosomes. ADCAII, which always presents with retinal degeneration (SCA7), and ADCAIII often referred to as the `pure' cerebellar syndrome (SCA5), are most likely homogeneous disorders. Several SCA genes have been cloned and shown to contain CAG repeats in their coding regions. ADCA is caused by the expansion of the CAG repeats, producing an elongated polyglutamine tract in the corresponding protein. The expanded repeats are variable in size and unstable, usually increasing in size when transmitted to successive generations. The function of the ataxins is not known. This locus has been mapped to chromosome 6, and it has been determined that the diseased allele contains 41-81 CAG repeats, compared to 6-39 in the normal allele, and is associated with spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 (SCA1). At least two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]	ATXN1 (Ataxin 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ATXN1 include spinocerebellar ataxia 1 and spinocerebellar ataxia. Among its related pathways are Akt Signaling and Neuroscience. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and protein self-association. An important paralog of this gene is ATXN1L.	Chromatin-binding factor that repress Notch signaling in the absence of Notch intracellular domain by acting as a CBF1 corepressor. Binds to the HEY promoter and might assist, along with NCOR2, RBPJ-mediated repression. Binds RNA in vitro. May be involved in RNA metabolism. The expansion of the polyglutamine tract may alter this function.	same
B3GNT8	empty	B3GNT8 (UDP-GlcNAc:BetaGal Beta-1,3-N-Acetylglucosaminyltransferase 8) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein. GO annotations related to this gene include galactosyltransferase activity and protein N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is B3GNT5.	Beta-1,3-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase that plays a role in the elongation of specific branch structures of multiantennary N-glycans. Has strong activity towards tetraantennary N-glycans and 2,6 triantennary glycans.	same
B3GNT9	empty	B3GNT9 (UDP-GlcNAc:BetaGal Beta-1,3-N-Acetylglucosaminyltransferase 9) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein. GO annotations related to this gene include galactosyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is B3GNT5.	empty	same
B4GALNT4	empty	B4GALNT4 (Beta-1,4-N-Acetyl-Galactosaminyl Transferase 4) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include acetylgalactosaminyltransferase activity and N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminyl-glycoprotein 4-beta-N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is B4GALNT3.	Transfers N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) from UDP-GalNAc to N-acetylglucosamine-beta-benzyl with a beta-1,4-linkage to form N,N-diacetyllactosediamine, GalNAc-beta-1,4-GlcNAc structures in N-linked glycans and probably O-linked glycans	same
B4GALT2	This gene is one of seven beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase (beta4GalT) genes. They encode type II membrane-bound glycoproteins that appear to have exclusive specificity for the donor substrate UDP-galactose; all transfer galactose in a beta1,4 linkage to similar acceptor sugars: GlcNAc, Glc, and Xyl. Each beta4GalT has a distinct function in the biosynthesis of different glycoconjugates and saccharide structures. As type II membrane proteins, they have an N-terminal hydrophobic signal sequence that directs the protein to the Golgi apparatus and which then remains uncleaved to function as a transmembrane anchor. By sequence similarity, the beta4GalTs form four groups: beta4GalT1 and beta4GalT2, beta4GalT3 and beta4GalT4, beta4GalT5 and beta4GalT6, and beta4GalT7. The enzyme encoded by this gene synthesizes N-acetyllactosamine in glycolipids and glycoproteins. Its substrate specificity is affected by alpha-lactalbumin but it is not expressed in lactating mammary tissue. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]	B4GALT2 (UDP-Gal:BetaGlcNAc Beta 1,4- Galactosyltransferase, Polypeptide 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include galactosyltransferase activity and N-acetyllactosamine synthase activity. An important paralog of this gene is B4GALT7.	Responsible for the synthesis of complex-type N-linked oligosaccharides in many glycoproteins as well as the carbohydrate moieties of glycolipids. Can produce lactose	same
B4GALT1	This gene is one of seven beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase (beta4GalT) genes. They encode type II membrane-bound glycoproteins that appear to have exclusive specificity for the donor substrate UDP-galactose; all transfer galactose in a beta1,4 linkage to similar acceptor sugars: GlcNAc, Glc, and Xyl. Each beta4GalT has a distinct function in the biosynthesis of different glycoconjugates and saccharide structures. As type II membrane proteins, they have an N-terminal hydrophobic signal sequence that directs the protein to the Golgi apparatus and which then remains uncleaved to function as a transmembrane anchor. By sequence similarity, the beta4GalTs form four groups: beta4GalT1 and beta4GalT2, beta4GalT3 and beta4GalT4, beta4GalT5 and beta4GalT6, and beta4GalT7. This gene is unique among the beta4GalT genes because it encodes an enzyme that participates both in glycoconjugate and lactose biosynthesis. For the first activity, the enzyme adds galactose to N-acetylglucosamine residues that are either monosaccharides or the nonreducing ends of glycoprotein carbohydrate chains. The second activity is restricted to lactating mammary tissues where the enzyme forms a heterodimer with alpha-lactalbumin to catalyze UDP-galactose + D-glucose <=> UDP + lactose. The two enzymatic forms result from alternate transcription initiation sites and post-translational processing. Two transcripts, which differ only at the 5' end, with approximate lengths of 4.1 kb and 3.9 kb encode the same protein. The longer transcript encodes the type II membrane-bound, trans-Golgi resident protein involved in glycoconjugate biosynthesis. The shorter transcript encodes a protein which is cleaved to form the soluble lactose synthase. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	B4GALT1 (UDP-Gal:BetaGlcNAc Beta 1,4- Galactosyltransferase, Polypeptide 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with B4GALT1 include congenital disorder of glycosylation, type iid and hutchinson-gilford progeria. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and beta-tubulin binding. An important paralog of this gene is B4GALT7.	The Golgi complex form catalyzes the production of lactose in the lactating mammary gland and could also be responsible for the synthesis of complex-type N-linked oligosaccharides in many glycoproteins as well as the carbohydrate moieties of glycolipids	same
B3GAT2	The product of this gene is a transmembrane protein belonging to the glucuronyltransferase family, and catalyzes the transfer of a beta-1,3 linked glucuronic acid to a terminal galactose in different glycoproteins or glycolipids containing a Gal-beta-1-4GlcNAc or Gal-beta-1-3GlcNAc residue. The encoded protein is involved in the synthesis of the human natural killer-1 (HNK-1) carbohydrate epitope, a sulfated trisaccharide implicated in cellular migration and adhesion in the nervous system. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	B3GAT2 (Beta-1,3-Glucuronyltransferase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include galactosylgalactosylxylosylprotein 3-beta-glucuronosyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is B3GAT1.	Involved in the biosynthesis of L2/HNK-1 carbohydrate epitope on both glycolipids and glycoproteins.	same
B4GALNT3	B4GALNT3 transfers N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) onto glucosyl residues to form N,N-prime-diacetyllactosediamine (LacdiNAc, or LDN), a unique terminal structure of cell surface N-glycans (Ikehara et al., 2006 [PubMed 16728562]).[supplied by OMIM, Aug 2008]	B4GALNT3 (Beta-1,4-N-Acetyl-Galactosaminyl Transferase 3) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include acetylgalactosaminyltransferase activity and N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminyl-glycoprotein 4-beta-N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is B4GALNT4.	Transfers N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) from UDP-GalNAc to N-acetylglucosamine-beta-benzyl with a beta-1,4-linkage to form N,N-diacetyllactosediamine, GalNAc-beta-1,4-GlcNAc structures in N-linked glycans and probably O-linked glycans. Mediates the N,N-diacetyllactosediamine formation on gastric mucosa.	same
B3GALT4	This gene is a member of the beta-1,3-galactosyltransferase (beta3GalT) gene family. This family encodes type II membrane-bound glycoproteins with diverse enzymatic functions using different donor substrates (UDP-galactose and UDP-N-acetylglucosamine) and different acceptor sugars (N-acetylglucosamine, galactose, N-acetylgalactosamine). The beta3GalT genes are distantly related to the Drosophila Brainiac gene and have the protein coding sequence contained in a single exon. The beta3GalT proteins also contain conserved sequences not found in the beta4GalT or alpha3GalT proteins. The carbohydrate chains synthesized by these enzymes are designated as type 1, whereas beta4GalT enzymes synthesize type 2 carbohydrate chains. The ratio of type 1:type 2 chains changes during embryogenesis. By sequence similarity, the beta3GalT genes fall into at least two groups: beta3GalT4 and 4 other beta3GalT genes (beta3GalT1-3, beta3GalT5). This gene is oriented telomere to centromere in close proximity to the ribosomal protein S18 gene. The functionality of the encoded protein is limited to ganglioseries glycolipid biosynthesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	B3GALT4 (UDP-Gal:BetaGlcNAc Beta 1,3-Galactosyltransferase, Polypeptide 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with B3GALT4 include uterine corpus cancer. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Other types of O-glycan biosynthesis. GO annotations related to this gene include UDP-galactose:beta-N-acetylglucosamine beta-1,3-galactosyltransferase activity and ganglioside galactosyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is B3GNT5.	Involved in GM1/GD1B/GA1 ganglioside biosynthesis.	same
B4GALT4	This gene is one of seven beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase (beta4GalT) genes. They encode type II membrane-bound glycoproteins that appear to have exclusive specificity for the donor substrate UDP-galactose; all transfer galactose in a beta1,4 linkage to similar acceptor sugars: GlcNAc, Glc, and Xyl. Each beta4GalT has a distinct function in the biosynthesis of different glycoconjugates and saccharide structures. As type II membrane proteins, they have an N-terminal hydrophobic signal sequence that directs the protein to the Golgi apparatus and which then remains uncleaved to function as a transmembrane anchor. By sequence similarity, the beta4GalTs form four groups: beta4GalT1 and beta4GalT2, beta4GalT3 and beta4GalT4, beta4GalT5 and beta4GalT6, and beta4GalT7. The enzyme encoded by this gene appears to mainly play a role in glycolipid biosynthesis. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	B4GALT4 (UDP-Gal:BetaGlcNAc Beta 1,4- Galactosyltransferase, Polypeptide 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include galactosyltransferase activity and N-acetyllactosamine synthase activity. An important paralog of this gene is B4GALT7.	Responsible for the synthesis of complex-type N-linked oligosaccharides in many glycoproteins as well as the carbohydrate moieties of glycolipids.	same
B4GALT5	This gene is one of seven beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase (beta4GalT) genes. They encode type II membrane-bound glycoproteins that appear to have exclusive specificity for the donor substrate UDP-galactose; all transfer galactose in a beta1,4 linkage to similar acceptor sugars: GlcNAc, Glc, and Xyl. Each beta4GalT has a distinct function in the biosynthesis of different glycoconjugates and saccharide structures. As type II membrane proteins, they have an N-terminal hydrophobic signal sequence that directs the protein to the Golgi apparatus and which then remains uncleaved to function as a transmembrane anchor. By sequence similarity, the beta4GalTs form four groups: beta4GalT1 and beta4GalT2, beta4GalT3 and beta4GalT4, beta4GalT5 and beta4GalT6, and beta4GalT7. The function of the enzyme encoded by this gene is not clear. This gene was previously designated as B4GALT4 but was renamed to B4GALT5. In the literature it is also referred to as beta4GalT2. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	B4GALT5 (UDP-Gal:BetaGlcNAc Beta 1,4- Galactosyltransferase, Polypeptide 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with B4GALT5 include nasopharynx carcinoma. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include galactosyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is B4GALT7.	Responsible for the synthesis of complex-type N-linked oligosaccharides in many glycoproteins as well as the carbohydrate moieties of glycolipids.	same
B3GNT6	empty	B3GNT6 (UDP-GlcNAc:BetaGal Beta-1,3-N-Acetylglucosaminyltransferase 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein. GO annotations related to this gene include galactosyltransferase activity and beta-1,3-galactosyl-O-glycosyl-glycoprotein beta-1,3-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is B3GNT5.	Beta-1,3-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase that synthesizes the core 3 structure of the O-glycan, an important precursor in the biosynthesis of mucin-type glycoproteins. Plays an important role in the synthesis of mucin-type O-glycans in digestive organs	same
B4GALNT2	B4GALNT2 catalyzes the last step in the biosynthesis of the human Sd(a) antigen through the addition of an N-acetylgalactosamine residue via a beta-1,4 linkage to a subterminal galactose residue substituted with an alpha-2,3-linked sialic acid. B4GALNT2 also catalyzes the last step in the biosynthesis of the Cad antigen (Montiel et al., 2003 [PubMed 12678917]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	B4GALNT2 (Beta-1,4-N-Acetyl-Galactosaminyl Transferase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with B4GALNT2 include tracheitis and dermatophytosis. GO annotations related to this gene include acetylgalactosaminyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is B4GALNT1.	Involved in the synthesis of the Sd(a) antigen (Sia-alpha2,3-[GalNAc-beta1,4]Gal-beta1,4-GlcNAc), a carbohydrate determinant expressed on erythrocytes, the colonic mucosa and other tissues. Transfers a beta-1,4-linked GalNAc to the galactose residue of an alpha-2,3-sialylated chain.	same
B9D2	This gene encodes a B9 domain protein, which are exclusively found in ciliated organisms. The gene is upregulated during mucociliary differentiation, and the encoded protein localizes to basal bodies and cilia. Disrupting expression of this gene results in ciliogenesis defects. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]	B9D2 (B9 Protein Domain 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with B9D2 include meckel syndrome 10 and b9d2-related meckel syndrome. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include gamma-tubulin binding. An important paralog of this gene is B9D1.	Component of the tectonic-like complex, a complex localized at the transition zone of primary cilia and acting as a barrier that prevents diffusion of transmembrane proteins between the cilia and plasma membranes.	same
B9D1	This gene encodes a B9 domain-containing protein, one of several that are involved in ciliogenesis. Alterations in expression of this gene have been found in a family with Meckel syndrome. Meckel syndrome has been associated with at least six different genes. This gene is located within the Smith-Magenis syndrome region on chromosome 17. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different proteins have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	B9D1 (B9 Protein Domain 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with B9D1 include meckel syndrome 9 and b9d1-related meckel syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include hedgehog receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is B9D2.	Component of the tectonic-like complex, a complex localized at the transition zone of primary cilia and acting as a barrier that prevents diffusion of transmembrane proteins between the cilia and plasma membranes. Required for ciliogenesis and sonic hedgehog/SHH signaling (By similarity).	same
B4GALT6	This gene is one of seven beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase (beta4GalT) genes. They encode type II membrane-bound glycoproteins that appear to have exclusive specificity for the donor substrate UDP-galactose; all transfer galactose in a beta1,4 linkage to similar acceptor sugars: GlcNAc, Glc, and Xyl. Each beta4GalT has a distinct function in the biosynthesis of different glycoconjugates and saccharide structures. As type II membrane proteins, they have an N-terminal hydrophobic signal sequence that directs the protein to the Golgi apparatus and which then remains uncleaved to function as a transmembrane anchor. By sequence similarity, the beta4GalTs form four groups: beta4GalT1 and beta4GalT2, beta4GalT3 and beta4GalT4, beta4GalT5 and beta4GalT6, and beta4GalT7. The enzyme encoded by this gene is a lactosylceramide synthase important for glycolipid biosynthesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	B4GALT6 (UDP-Gal:BetaGlcNAc Beta 1,4- Galactosyltransferase, Polypeptide 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with B4GALT6 include prostate carcinoma in situ. Among its related pathways are Disease and Sphingolipid metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include galactosyltransferase activity and UDP-galactose:glucosylceramide beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is B4GALT7.	Required for the biosynthesis of glycosphingolipids.	same
B3GNT7	empty	B3GNT7 (UDP-GlcNAc:BetaGal Beta-1,3-N-Acetylglucosaminyltransferase 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include galactosyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is B3GNT5.	May be involved in keratane sulfate biosynthesis. Transfers N-acetylgalactosamine on to keratan sulfate-related glycans. May play a role in preventing cells from migrating out of the original tissues and invading surrounding tissues.	same
BACE2	This gene encodes an integral membrane glycoprotein that functions as an aspartic protease. The encoded protein cleaves amyloid precursor protein into amyloid beta peptide, which is a critical step in the etiology of Alzheimer's disease and Down syndrome. The protein precursor is further processed into an active mature peptide. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]	BACE2 (Beta-Site APP-Cleaving Enzyme 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BACE2 include down syndrome and alzheimer disease. Among its related pathways are Alzheimers Disease Pathway and Alzheimers disease. GO annotations related to this gene include aspartic-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is BACE1.	Responsible for the proteolytic processing of the amyloid precursor protein (APP). Cleaves APP, between residues 690 and 691, leading to the generation and extracellular release of beta-cleaved soluble APP, and a corresponding cell-associated C-terminal fragment which is later released by gamma-secretase. It has also been shown that it can cleave APP between residues 671 and 672.	same
BACH1	This gene encodes a transcription factor that belongs to the cap'n'collar type of basic region leucine zipper factor family (CNC-bZip). The encoded protein contains broad complex, tramtrack, bric-a-brac/poxvirus and zinc finger (BTB/POZ) domains, which is atypical of CNC-bZip family members. These BTB/POZ domains facilitate protein-protein interactions and formation of homo- and/or hetero-oligomers. When this encoded protein forms a heterodimer with MafK, it functions as a repressor of Maf recognition element (MARE) and transcription is repressed. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2009]	BACH1 (BTB And CNC Homology 1, Basic Leucine Zipper Transcription Factor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BACH1 include fanconi anemia, complementation group j and breast cancer. Among its related pathways are BRCA1 Pathway and Integrated Breast Cancer Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is NFE2.	Transcriptional regulator that acts as repressor or activator. Binds, in vitro, to NF-E2 binding sites. Play important roles in coordinating transcription activation and repression by MAFK	same
ATXN8OS	This gene is an antisense transcript to the KLHL1 gene (homolog to the Drosophila KELCH gene); it does not itself appear to be protein coding. A TAC/TGC trinucleotide repeat expansion that is incorporated into this gene transcript, but not the KLHL1 transcript, causes spinocerebellar ataxia type 8. Presumably the expansion interferes with normal antisense function of this transcript. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]	ATXN8OS (ATXN8 Opposite Strand (Non-Protein Coding)) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class. Diseases associated with ATXN8OS include spinocerebellar ataxia 8 and spinocerebellar ataxia 1.	empty	same
BAALC	This gene was identified by gene expression studies in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML). The gene is conserved among mammals and is not found in lower organisms. Tissues that express this gene develop from the neuroectoderm. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different proteins have been described for this gene; however, some of the transcript variants are found only in AML cell lines. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BAALC (Brain And Acute Leukemia, Cytoplasmic) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BAALC include cytogenetically normal acute myeloid leukemia and acute leukemia.	May play a synaptic role at the postsynaptic lipid rafts by interacting with CAMK2A.	same
BAD	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the BCL-2 family. BCL-2 family members are known to be regulators of programmed cell death. This protein positively regulates cell apoptosis by forming heterodimers with BCL-xL and BCL-2, and reversing their death repressor activity. Proapoptotic activity of this protein is regulated through its phosphorylation. Protein kinases AKT and MAP kinase, as well as protein phosphatase calcineurin were found to be involved in the regulation of this protein. Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants which encode the same isoform. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BAD (BCL2-Associated Agonist Of Cell Death) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BAD include endometrial cancer and pancreatic cancer. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and PI-3K cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include protein heterodimerization activity and protein kinase binding.	Promotes cell death. Successfully competes for the binding to Bcl-X(L), Bcl-2 and Bcl-W, thereby affecting the level of heterodimerization of these proteins with BAX. Can reverse the death repressor activity of Bcl-X(L), but not that of Bcl-2 (By similarity). Appears to act as a link between growth factor receptor signaling and the apoptotic pathways.	same
BACH2	empty	BACH2 (BTB And CNC Homology 1, Basic Leucine Zipper Transcription Factor 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Lymphocyte Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and sequence-specific DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is NFE2.	Transcriptional regulator that acts as repressor or activator. Binds to Maf recognition elements (MARE). Play important roles in coordinating transcription activation and repression by MAFK (By similarity). Induces apoptosis in response to oxidative stress through repression of the antiapoptotic factor HMOX1.	same
BAG1	The oncogene BCL2 is a membrane protein that blocks a step in a pathway leading to apoptosis or programmed cell death. The protein encoded by this gene binds to BCL2 and is referred to as BCL2-associated athanogene. It enhances the anti-apoptotic effects of BCL2 and represents a link between growth factor receptors and anti-apoptotic mechanisms. Multiple protein isoforms are encoded by this mRNA through the use of a non-AUG (CUG) initiation codon, and three alternative downstream AUG initiation codons. A related pseudogene has been defined on chromosome X. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]	BAG1 (BCL2-Associated Athanogene) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BAG1 include spindle cell hemangioma. Among its related pathways are Androgen receptor signaling pathway and Protein processing in endoplasmic reticulum. GO annotations related to this gene include chaperone binding and receptor signaling protein activity.	Inhibits the chaperone activity of HSP70/HSC70 by promoting substrate release. Inhibits the pro-apoptotic function of PPP1R15A, and has anti-apoptotic activity. Markedly increases the anti-cell death function of BCL2 induced by various stimuli.	same
BAG3	BAG proteins compete with Hip for binding to the Hsc70/Hsp70 ATPase domain and promote substrate release. All the BAG proteins have an approximately 45-amino acid BAG domain near the C terminus but differ markedly in their N-terminal regions. The protein encoded by this gene contains a WW domain in the N-terminal region and a BAG domain in the C-terminal region. The BAG domains of BAG1, BAG2, and BAG3 interact specifically with the Hsc70 ATPase domain in vitro and in mammalian cells. All 3 proteins bind with high affinity to the ATPase domain of Hsc70 and inhibit its chaperone activity in a Hip-repressible manner. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BAG3 (BCL2-Associated Athanogene 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BAG3 include myopathy, myofibrillar, 6 and cardiomyopathy, dilated, 1hh. Among its related pathways are Apoptosis (WikiPathways) and Busulfan Pathway, Pharmacodynamics. GO annotations related to this gene include protein complex binding and chaperone binding. An important paralog of this gene is BAG4.	Inhibits the chaperone activity of HSP70/HSC70 by promoting substrate release. Has anti-apoptotic activity	same
BAGE2	empty	BAGE2 (B Melanoma Antigen Family, Member 2) is a Protein Coding gene.	Unknown. Candidate gene encoding tumor antigens	same
BAHCC1	empty	BAHCC1 (BAH Domain And Coiled-Coil Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
BAG5	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the BAG1-related protein family. BAG1 is an anti-apoptotic protein that functions through interactions with a variety of cell apoptosis and growth related proteins including BCL-2, Raf-protein kinase, steroid hormone receptors, growth factor receptors and members of the heat shock protein 70 kDa family. This protein contains a BAG domain near the C-terminus, which could bind and inhibit the chaperone activity of Hsc70/Hsp70. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BAG5 (BCL2-Associated Athanogene 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BAG5 include brain cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin protein ligase binding and chaperone binding. An important paralog of this gene is BAG4.	Inhibits both auto-ubiquitination of PARK2 and ubiquitination of target proteins by PARK2 (By similarity). May function as a nucleotide exchange factor for HSP/HSP70, promoting ADP release, and activating Hsp70-mediated refolding.	same
B4GALT3	This gene is one of seven beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase (beta4GalT) genes. They encode type II membrane-bound glycoproteins that appear to have exclusive specificity for the donor substrate UDP-galactose; all transfer galactose in a beta1,4 linkage to similar acceptor sugars: GlcNAc, Glc, and Xyl. Each beta4GalT has a distinct function in the biosynthesis of different glycoconjugates and saccharide structures. As type II membrane proteins, they have an N-terminal hydrophobic signal sequence that directs the protein to the Golgi apparatus and which then remains uncleaved to function as a transmembrane anchor. By sequence similarity, the beta4GalTs form four groups: beta4GalT1 and beta4GalT2, beta4GalT3 and beta4GalT4, beta4GalT5 and beta4GalT6, and beta4GalT7. This gene encodes an enzyme that may be mainly involved in the synthesis of the first N-acetyllactosamine unit of poly-N-acetyllactosamine chains. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]	B4GALT3 (UDP-Gal:BetaGlcNAc Beta 1,4- Galactosyltransferase, Polypeptide 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include galactosyltransferase activity and N-acetyllactosamine synthase activity. An important paralog of this gene is B4GALT7.	Responsible for the synthesis of complex-type N-linked oligosaccharides in many glycoproteins as well as the carbohydrate moieties of glycolipids	same
BAI3	This p53-target gene encodes a brain-specific angiogenesis inhibitor, a seven-span transmembrane protein, and is thought to be a member of the secretin receptor family. Brain-specific angiogenesis proteins BAI2 and BAI3 are similar to BAI1 in structure, have similar tissue specificities, and may also play a role in angiogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADGRB3 (Adhesion G Protein-Coupled Receptor B3) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is UNC5D.	May regulate the number of excitatory synapses that are formed on hippocampus neurons. Has no effect on inhibitory synapses. Might be involved in angiogenesis inhibition and suppression of glioblastoma	diff
BAAT	The protein encoded by this gene is a liver enzyme that catalyzes the transfer of C24 bile acids from the acyl-CoA thioester to either glycine or taurine, the second step in the formation of bile acid-amino acid conjugates. The bile acid conjugates then act as a detergent in the gastrointestinal tract, which enhances lipid and fat-soluble vitamin absorption. Defects in this gene are a cause of familial hypercholanemia (FHCA). Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BAAT (Bile Acid CoA:Amino Acid N-Acyltransferase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BAAT include hypercholanemia, familial and baat-related familial hypercholanemia. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and palmitoyl-CoA hydrolase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACOT2.	Involved in bile acid metabolism. In liver hepatocytes catalyzes the second step in the conjugation of C24 bile acids (choloneates) to glycine and taurine before excretion into bile canaliculi. The major components of bile are cholic acid and chenodeoxycholic acid. In a first step the bile acids are converted to an acyl-CoA thioester, either in peroxisomes (primary bile acids deriving from the cholesterol pathway), or cytoplasmic at the endoplasmic reticulum (secondary bile acids). May catalyze the conjugation of primary or secondary bile acids, or both. The conjugation increases the detergent properties of bile acids in the intestine, which facilitates lipid and fat-soluble vitamin absorption. In turn, bile acids are deconjugated by bacteria in the intestine and are recycled back to the liver for reconjugation (secondary bile acids). May also act as an acyl-CoA thioesterase that regulates intracellular levels of free fatty acids. In vitro, catalyzes the hydrolysis of long- and very long-chain saturated acyl-CoAs to the free fatty acid and coenzyme A (CoASH), and conjugates glycine to these acyl-CoAs	same
BAIAP2L1	This gene encodes a member of the IMD (IRSp53/MIM homology domain) family. Members of this family can be subdivided in two groups, the IRSp53-like and MIM-like, based on the presence or absence of the SH3 (Src homology 3) domain. The protein encoded by this gene contains a conserved IMD, also known as F-actin bundling domain, at the N-terminus, and a canonical SH3 domain near the C-terminus, so it belongs to the IRSp53-like group. This protein is the substrate for insulin receptor tyrosine kinase and binds to the small GTPase Rac. It is involved in signal transduction pathways that link deformation of the plasma membrane and remodeling of the actin cytoskeleton. It also promotes actin assembly and membrane protrusions when overexpressed in mammalian cells, and is essential to the formation of a potent actin assembly complex during EHEC (Enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli) pedestal formation. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]	BAIAP2L1 (BAI1-Associated Protein 2-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BAIAP2L1 include leprechaunism. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding and proline-rich region binding. An important paralog of this gene is BAIAP2L2.	May function as adapter protein. Involved in the formation of clusters of actin bundles. Plays a role in the reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton in response to bacterial infection.	same
BAIAP2L2	The protein encoded by this gene binds phosphoinositides and promotes the formation of planar or curved membrane structures. The encoded protein is found in RAB13-positive vesicles and at intercellular contacts with the plasma membrane. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]	BAIAP2L2 (BAI1-Associated Protein 2-Like 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and cytoskeletal adaptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is BAIAP2.	Phosphoinositides-binding protein that induces the formation of planar or gently curved membrane structures. Binds to phosphoinositides, including to phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PtdIns(4,5)P2) headgroups. There seems to be no clear preference for a specific phosphoinositide (By similarity).	same
BACE1	Cerebral deposition of amyloid beta peptide is an early and critical feature of Alzheimer's disease. Amyloid beta peptide is generated by proteolytic cleavage of amyloid precursor protein (APP) by two proteases, one of which is the protein encoded by this gene. The encoded protein, a member of the peptidase A1 protein family, is a type I integral membrane glycoprotein and aspartic protease that is found mainly in the Golgi. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]	BACE1 (Beta-Site APP-Cleaving Enzyme 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BACE1 include myositis and alzheimer disease. Among its related pathways are Alzheimers Disease Pathway and Neuroscience. GO annotations related to this gene include enzyme binding and beta-aspartyl-peptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is REN.	Responsible for the proteolytic processing of the amyloid precursor protein (APP). Cleaves at the N-terminus of the A-beta peptide sequence, between residues 671 and 672 of APP, leads to the generation and extracellular release of beta-cleaved soluble APP, and a corresponding cell-associated C-terminal fragment which is later released by gamma-secretase.	same
BAIAP3	This p53-target gene encodes a brain-specific angiogenesis inhibitor. The protein is a seven-span transmembrane protein and a member of the secretin receptor family. It interacts with the cytoplasmic region of brain-specific angiogenesis inhibitor 1. This protein also contains two C2 domains, which are often found in proteins involved in signal transduction or membrane trafficking. Its expression pattern and similarity to other proteins suggest that it may be involved in synaptic functions. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]	BAIAP3 (BAI1-Associated Protein 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Transcriptional misregulation in cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include protein C-terminus binding. An important paralog of this gene is UNC13D.	empty	same
BAMBI	This gene encodes a transmembrane glycoprotein related to the type I receptors of the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) family, whose members play important roles in signal transduction in many developmental and pathological processes. The encoded protein however is a pseudoreceptor, lacking an intracellular serine/threonine kinase domain required for signaling. Similar proteins in frog, mouse and zebrafish function as negative regulators of TGF-beta, which has led to the suggestion that the encoded protein may function to limit the signaling range of the TGF-beta family during early embryogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BAMBI (BMP And Activin Membrane-Bound Inhibitor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BAMBI include cohen syndrome and gnathodiaphyseal dysplasia. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include frizzled binding and type II transforming growth factor beta receptor binding.	Negatively regulates TGF-beta signaling	same
BANF1	The protein encoded by this gene was first identified by its ability to protect retroviruses from intramolecular integration and therefore promote intermolecular integration into the host cell genome. The protein forms a homodimer which localizes to both the nucleus and cytoplasm and is specifically associated with chromosomes during mitosis. This protein binds to double stranded DNA in a non-specific manner and also binds to LEM-domain containing proteins of the nuclear envelope. This protein is thought to facilitate nuclear reassembly by binding with both DNA and inner nuclear membrane proteins and thereby recruit chromatin to the nuclear periphery. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]	BANF1 (Barrier To Autointegration Factor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BANF1 include nestor-guillermo progeria syndrome and mandibuloacral dysplasia. Among its related pathways are Disease and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. An important paralog of this gene is BANF2.	Plays fundamental roles in nuclear assembly, chromatin organization, gene expression and gonad development. May potently compress chromatin structure and be involved in membrane recruitment and chromatin decondensation during nuclear assembly. Contains 2 non-specific dsDNA-binding sites which may promote DNA cross-bridging. Exploited by retroviruses for inhibiting self-destructing autointegration of retroviral DNA, thereby promoting integration of viral DNA into the host chromosome. EMD and BAF are cooperative cofactors of HIV-1 infection. Association of EMD with the viral DNA requires the presence of BAF and viral integrase. The association of viral DNA with chromatin requires the presence of BAF and EMD.	same
BANF2	empty	BANF2 (Barrier To Autointegration Factor 2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is BANF1.	May play a role in BANF1 regulation and influence tissue-specific roles of BANF1	same
BAG2	BAG proteins compete with Hip for binding to the Hsc70/Hsp70 ATPase domain and promote substrate release. All the BAG proteins have an approximately 45-amino acid BAG domain near the C terminus but differ markedly in their N-terminal regions. The predicted BAG2 protein contains 211 amino acids. The BAG domains of BAG1, BAG2, and BAG3 interact specifically with the Hsc70 ATPase domain in vitro and in mammalian cells. All 3 proteins bind with high affinity to the ATPase domain of Hsc70 and inhibit its chaperone activity in a Hip-repressible manner. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BAG2 (BCL2-Associated Athanogene 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BAG2 include spindle cell hemangioma and brain cancer. Among its related pathways are Protein processing in endoplasmic reticulum and Regulation of degradation of deltaF508 CFTR in CF. GO annotations related to this gene include chaperone binding.	Inhibits the chaperone activity of HSP70/HSC70 by promoting substrate release	same
BAP1	This gene belongs to the ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase subfamily of deubiquitinating enzymes that are involved in the removal of ubiquitin from proteins. The encoded enzyme binds to the breast cancer type 1 susceptibility protein (BRCA1) via the RING finger domain of the latter and acts as a tumor suppressor. In addition, the enzyme may be involved in regulation of transcription, regulation of cell cycle and growth, response to DNA damage and chromatin dynamics. Germline mutations in this gene may be associated with tumor predisposition syndrome (TPDS), which involves increased risk of cancers including malignant mesothelioma, uveal melanoma and cutaneous melanoma. [provided by RefSeq, May 2013]	BAP1 (BRCA1 Associated Protein-1 (Ubiquitin Carboxy-Terminal Hydrolase)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BAP1 include tumor predisposition syndrome and bap1-related tumor predisposition syndrome. Among its related pathways are Cytoskeletal Signaling and Protein Stability. GO annotations related to this gene include chromatin binding and peptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is UCHL5.	Deubiquitinating enzyme that plays a key role in chromatin by mediating deubiquitination of histone H2A and HCFC1. Catalytic component of the PR-DUB complex, a complex that specifically mediates deubiquitination of histone H2A monoubiquitinated at Lys-119 (H2AK119ub1). Does not deubiquitinate monoubiquitinated histone H2B. Acts as a regulator of cell growth by mediating deubiquitination of HCFC1 N-terminal and C-terminal chains, with some specificity toward Lys-48-linked polyubiquitin chains compared to Lys-63-linked polyubiquitin chains. Deubiquitination of HCFC1 does not lead to increase stability of HCFC1. Interferes with the BRCA1 and BARD1 heterodimer activity by inhibiting their ability to mediate ubiquitination and autoubiquitination. It however does not mediate deubiquitination of BRCA1 and BARD1. Able to mediate autodeubiquitination via intramolecular interactions to couteract monoubiquitination at the nuclear localization signal (NLS), thereby protecting it from cytoplasmic sequestration (PubMed:24703950). Acts as a tumor suppressor.	same
BANK1	The protein encoded by this gene is a B-cell-specific scaffold protein that functions in B-cell receptor-induced calcium mobilization from intracellular stores. This protein can also promote Lyn-mediated tyrosine phosphorylation of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors. Polymorphisms in this gene are associated with susceptibility to systemic lupus erythematosus. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]	BANK1 (B-Cell Scaffold Protein With Ankyrin Repeats 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BANK1 include systemic lupus erythematosus and multifocal motor neuropathy. Among its related pathways are B Cell Receptor Signaling Pathway (WikiPathways). An important paralog of this gene is PIK3AP1.	Involved in B-cell receptor (BCR)-induced Ca(2+) mobilization from intracellular stores. Promotes Lyn-mediated phosphorylation of IP3 receptors 1 and 2.	same
BARD1	This gene encodes a protein which interacts with the N-terminal region of BRCA1. In addition to its ability to bind BRCA1 in vivo and in vitro, it shares homology with the 2 most conserved regions of BRCA1: the N-terminal RING motif and the C-terminal BRCT domain. The RING motif is a cysteine-rich sequence found in a variety of proteins that regulate cell growth, including the products of tumor suppressor genes and dominant protooncogenes. This protein also contains 3 tandem ankyrin repeats. The BARD1/BRCA1 interaction is disrupted by tumorigenic amino acid substitutions in BRCA1, implying that the formation of a stable complex between these proteins may be an essential aspect of BRCA1 tumor suppression. This protein may be the target of oncogenic mutations in breast or ovarian cancer. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2013]	BARD1 (BRCA1 Associated RING Domain 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BARD1 include bard1-related susceptibility to breast cancer and hereditary breast ovarian cancer. Among its related pathways are RB in Cancer and Prostate Cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and protein heterodimerization activity. An important paralog of this gene is BCORL1.	Probable E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase. The BRCA1-BARD1 heterodimer specifically mediates the formation of Lys-6-linked polyubiquitin chains and coordinates a diverse range of cellular pathways such as DNA damage repair, ubiquitination and transcriptional regulation to maintain genomic stability. Plays a central role in the control of the cell cycle in response to DNA damage. Acts by mediating ubiquitin E3 ligase activity that is required for its tumor suppressor function. Also forms a heterodimer with CSTF1/CSTF-50 to modulate mRNA processing and RNAP II stability by inhibiting pre-mRNA 3 cleavage.	same
BAG4	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the BAG1-related protein family. BAG1 is an anti-apoptotic protein that functions through interactions with a variety of cell apoptosis and growth related proteins including BCL-2, Raf-protein kinase, steroid hormone receptors, growth factor receptors and members of the heat shock protein 70 kDa family. This protein contains a BAG domain near the C-terminus, which could bind and inhibit the chaperone activity of Hsc70/Hsp70. This protein was found to be associated with the death domain of tumor necrosis factor receptor type 1 (TNF-R1) and death receptor-3 (DR3), and thereby negatively regulates downstream cell death signaling. The regulatory role of this protein in cell death was demonstrated in epithelial cells which undergo apoptosis while integrin mediated matrix contacts are lost. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]	BAG4 (BCL2-Associated Athanogene 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BAG4 include monilethrix. Among its related pathways are Apoptosis Signaling Pathways and TNF-alpha/NF-kB Signaling Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include chaperone binding and receptor signaling protein activity. An important paralog of this gene is BAG5.	Inhibits the chaperone activity of HSP70/HSC70 by promoting substrate release (By similarity). Prevents constitutive TNFRSF1A signaling. Negative regulator of PARK2 translocation to damaged mitochondria.	same
BARHL2	empty	BARHL2 (BarH-Like Homeobox 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding and RNA polymerase II core promoter proximal region sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity involved in positive regulation of transcription. An important paralog of this gene is DLX5.	Potential regulator of neural basic helix-loop-helix genes.	same
BASE	empty	BPIFA4P (BPI Fold Containing Family A, Member 4, Pseudogene) is a Pseudogene. Diseases associated with BPIFA4P include breast cancer.	Major protein in sweat, has surfactant properties.	diff
BAI1	Angiogenesis is controlled by a local balance between stimulators and inhibitors of new vessel growth and is suppressed under normal physiologic conditions. Angiogenesis has been shown to be essential for growth and metastasis of solid tumors. In order to obtain blood supply for their growth, tumor cells are potently angiogenic and attract new vessels as results of increased secretion of inducers and decreased production of endogenous negative regulators. BAI1 contains at least one 'functional' p53-binding site within an intron, and its expression has been shown to be induced by wildtype p53. There are two other brain-specific angiogenesis inhibitor genes, designated BAI2 and BAI3 which along with BAI1 have similar tissue specificities and structures, however only BAI1 is transcriptionally regulated by p53. BAI1 is postulated to be a member of the secretin receptor family, an inhibitor of angiogenesis and a growth suppressor of glioblastomas [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADGRB1 (Adhesion G Protein-Coupled Receptor B1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are p53 Signaling and p53 signaling pathway. An important paralog of this gene is UNC5D.	Phosphatidylserine receptor that enhances the engulfment of apoptotic cells. Likely to be a potent inhibitor of angiogenesis in brain and may play a significant role as a mediator of the p53 signal in suppression of glioblastoma. May function in cell adhesion and signal transduction in the brain.	diff
BARX2	This gene encodes a member of the homeobox transcription factor family. A highly related protein in mouse has been shown to influence cellular processes that control cell adhesion and remodeling of the actin cytoskeleton in myoblast fusion and chondrogenesis. The encoded protein may also play a role in cancer progression. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BARX2 (BARX Homeobox 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and transcription regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is DLX5.	Transcription factor. Binds optimally to the DNA consensus sequence 5-YYTAATGRTTTTY-3. May control the expression of neural adhesion molecules such as L1 or Ng-CAM during embryonic development of both the central and peripherical nervous system. May be involved in controlling adhesive processes in keratinizing epithelia (By similarity).	same
BAI2	This gene encodes a a seven-span transmembrane protein that is thought to be a member of the secretin receptor family. The encoded protein is a brain-specific inhibitor of angiogenesis. The mature peptide may be further cleaved into additional products (PMID:20367554). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2014]	ADGRB2 (Adhesion G Protein-Coupled Receptor B2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is UNC5D.	Might be involved in angiogenesis inhibition	diff
BAGE	This gene encodes a tumor antigen recognized by autologous cytolytic lymphocytes (CTL). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BAGE (B Melanoma Antigen) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BAGE include testicular cancer and chronic lymphocytic leukemia.	Unknown. Antigen recognized on a melanoma by autologous cytolytic T-lymphocytes	same
BARHL1	empty	BARHL1 (BarH-Like Homeobox 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding and RNA polymerase II core promoter proximal region sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity involved in positive regulation of transcription. An important paralog of this gene is DLX5.	empty	same
BAT2L1	empty	PRRC2B (Proline-Rich Coiled-Coil 2B) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is PRRC2A.	empty	diff
BAT2L2	empty	PRRC2C (Proline-Rich Coiled-Coil 2C) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein C-terminus binding. An important paralog of this gene is PRRC2A.	empty	diff
BAT2	A cluster of genes, BAT1-BAT5, has been localized in the vicinity of the genes for TNF alpha and TNF beta. These genes are all within the human major histocompatibility complex class III region. This gene has microsatellite repeats which are associated with the age-at-onset of insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) and possibly thought to be involved with the inflammatory process of pancreatic beta-cell destruction during the development of IDDM. This gene is also a candidate gene for the development of rheumatoid arthritis. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]	PRRC2A (Proline-Rich Coiled-Coil 2A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with PRRC2A include coronary artery aneurysm and rheumatoid arthritis. An important paralog of this gene is PRRC2B.	May play a role in the regulation of pre-mRNA splicing.	diff
BARX1	This gene encodes a member of the Bar subclass of homeobox transcription factors. Studies of the mouse and chick homolog suggest the encoded protein may play a role in developing teeth and craniofacial mesenchyme of neural crest origin. The protein may also be associated with differentiation of stomach epithelia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BARX1 (BARX Homeobox 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BARX1 include hard palate cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and transcription regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is DLX5.	Transcription factor, which is involved in craniofacial development, in odontogenesis and in stomach organogenesis. May have a role in the differentiation of molars from incisors. Plays a role in suppressing endodermal Wnt activity (By similarity). Binds to a regulatory module of the NCAM promoter.	same
BAIAP2	The protein encoded by this gene has been identified as a brain-specific angiogenesis inhibitor (BAI1)-binding protein. This adaptor protein links membrane bound G-proteins to cytoplasmic effector proteins. This protein functions as an insulin receptor tyrosine kinase substrate and suggests a role for insulin in the central nervous system. It also associates with a downstream effector of Rho small G proteins, which is associated with the formation of stress fibers and cytokinesis. This protein is involved in lamellipodia and filopodia formation in motile cells and may affect neuronal growth-cone guidance. This protein has also been identified as interacting with the dentatorubral-pallidoluysian atrophy gene, which is associated with an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disease. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]	BAIAP2 (BAI1-Associated Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are RhoGDI Pathway and Regulation of actin cytoskeleton. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and SH3 domain binding. An important paralog of this gene is BAIAP2L2.	Adapter protein that links membrane-bound small G-proteins to cytoplasmic effector proteins. Necessary for CDC42-mediated reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton and for RAC1-mediated membrane ruffling. Involved in the regulation of the actin cytoskeleton by WASF family members and the Arp2/3 complex. Plays a role in neurite growth. Acts syngeristically with ENAH to promote filipodia formation. Plays a role in the reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton in response to bacterial infection. Participates in actin bundling when associated with EPS8, promoting filopodial protrusions.	same
BAT4	This gene is located in a cluster of HLA-B-associated transcripts, which is included in the human major histocompatability complex III region. This gene encodes a protein which is thought to play a role in immunity. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]	GPANK1 (G Patch Domain And Ankyrin Repeats 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleic acid binding.	empty	diff
BAT3	This gene was first characterized as part of a cluster of genes located within the human major histocompatibility complex class III region. This gene encodes a nuclear protein that is cleaved by caspase 3 and is implicated in the control of apoptosis. In addition, the protein forms a complex with E1A binding protein p300 and is required for the acetylation of p53 in response to DNA damage. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BAG6 (BCL2-Associated Athanogene 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BAG6 include coronary artery aneurysm. Among its related pathways are Protein Stability and TGF-beta/Smad Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include ribosome binding and Hsp70 protein binding.	Chaperone that plays a key role in various processes such as apoptosis, insertion of tail-anchored (TA) membrane proteins to the endoplasmic reticulum membrane and regulation of chromatin. Key component of the BAG6/BAT3 complex, a cytosolic multiprotein complex involved in the post-translational delivery of tail-anchored (TA) membrane proteins to the endoplasmic reticulum membrane. TA membrane proteins, also named type II transmembrane proteins, contain a single C-terminal transmembrane region. BAG6/BAT3 acts by facilitating TA membrane proteins capture by ASNA1/TRC40: it is recruited to ribosomes synthesizing membrane proteins, interacts with the transmembrane region of newly released TA proteins and transfers them to ASNA1/TRC40 for targeting to the endoplasmic reticulum membrane. Moreover, it regulates the stability and the degradation of proteins by the proteasome. For instance, it is required for selective ubiquitin-mediated degradation of defective nascent chain polypeptides by the proteasome. In this context, may play a role in immuno-proteasomes to generate antigenic peptides via targeted degradation, thereby playing a role in antigen presentation in immune response. It is also involved in ubiquitin-mediated proteasomal degradation of proteins of the secretory pathway that are mislocalized to the cytosol. Binds the mislocalized proteins, preventing their aggregation in the cytosol, and promotes their ubiquitination. Participates in endoplasmic reticulum stress-induced apoptosis via its interaction with AIFM1/AIF by regulating AIFM1/AIF stability and preventing its degradation. Also required during spermatogenesis for synaptonemal complex assembly via its interaction with HSPA2, by inhibiting polyubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of HSPA2.	diff
BANP	This gene encodes a protein that binds to matrix attachment regions. The protein forms a complex with p53 and negatively regulates p53 transcription, and functions as a tumor suppressor and cell cycle regulator. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]	BANP (BTG3 Associated Nuclear Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include p53 binding.	Controls V(D)J recombination during T-cell development by repressing T-cell receptor (TCR) beta enhancer function. Binds to scaffold/matrix attachment region beta (S/MARbeta), an ATC-rich DNA sequence located upstream of the TCR beta enhancer. Represses cyclin D1 transcription by recruiting HDAC1 to its promoter, thereby diminishing H3K9ac, H3S10ph and H4K8ac levels. Promotes TP53 Ser-15 phosphorylation and nuclear accumulation, which causes cell cycle arrest (By similarity).	same
BATF2	empty	BATF2 (Basic Leucine Zipper Transcription Factor, ATF-Like 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BATF2 include acute stress disorder. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and sequence-specific DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is BATF.	AP-1 family transcription factor that controls the differentiation of lineage-specific cells in the immune system. Following infection, participates in the differentiation of CD8(+) thymic conventional dendritic cells in the immune system. Acts via the formation of a heterodimer with JUN family proteins that recognizes and binds DNA sequence 5-TGA[CG]TCA-3 and regulates expression of target genes (By similarity). Selectively suppresses CYR61/CCN1 transcription and hence blocks the downstream cell proliferation signals produced by CYR61 and inhibits CYR61-induced anchorage-independent growth and invasion in several cancer types, such as breast cancer, malignant glioma and metastatic melanoma. Possibly acts by interfering with AP-1 binding to CYR61 promoter.	same
BATF3	This gene encodes a member of the basic leucine zipper protein family. The encoded protein functions as a transcriptional repressor when heterodimerizing with JUN. The protein may play a role in repression of interleukin-2 and matrix metalloproteinase-1 transcription.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]	BATF3 (Basic Leucine Zipper Transcription Factor, ATF-Like 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Calcineurin-regulated NFAT-dependent transcription in lymphocytes and Calcineurin-regulated NFAT-dependent transcription in lymphocytes. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and transcription corepressor activity. An important paralog of this gene is BATF2.	AP-1 family transcription factor that controls the differentiation of CD8(+) thymic conventional dendritic cells in the immune system. Required for development of CD8-alpha(+) classical dendritic cells (cDCs) and related CD103(+) dendritic cells that cross-present antigens to CD8 T-cells and produce interleukin-12 (IL12) in response to pathogens (By similarity). Acts via the formation of a heterodimer with JUN family proteins that recognizes and binds DNA sequence 5-TGA[CG]TCA-3 and regulates expression of target genes.	same
BATF	The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear basic leucine zipper protein that belongs to the AP-1/ATF superfamily of transcription factors. The leucine zipper of this protein mediates dimerization with members of the Jun family of proteins. This protein is thought to be a negative regulator of AP-1/ATF transcriptional events. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BATF (Basic Leucine Zipper Transcription Factor, ATF-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are MAPK targets/ Nuclear events mediated by MAP kinases and Lymphocyte Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and sequence-specific DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is BATF2.	AP-1 family transcription factor that controls the differentiation of lineage-specific cells in the immune system: specifically mediates the differentiation of T-helper 17 cells (Th17), follicular T-helper cells (TfH), CD8(+) dendritic cells and class-switch recombination (CSR) in B-cells. Acts via the formation of a heterodimer with JUNB that recognizes and binds DNA sequence 5-TGA[CG]TCA-3. The BATF-JUNB heterodimer also forms a complex with IRF4 (or IRF8) in immune cells, leading to recognition of AICE sequence (5-TGAnTCA/GAAA-3), an immune-specific regulatory element, followed by cooperative binding of BATF and IRF4 (or IRF8) and activation of genes. Controls differentiation of T-helper cells producing interleukin-17 (Th17 cells) by binding to Th17-associated gene promoters: regulates expression of the transcription factor RORC itself and RORC target genes such as IL17 (IL17A or IL17B). Also involved in differentiation of follicular T-helper cells (TfH) by directing expression of BCL6 and MAF. In B-cells, involved in class-switch recombination (CSR) by controlling the expression of both AICDA and of germline transcripts of the intervening heavy-chain region and constant heavy-chain region (I(H)-C(H)). Following infection, can participate in CD8(+) dendritic cell differentiation via interaction with IRF4 and IRF8 to mediate cooperative gene activation. Regulates effector CD8(+) T-cell differentiation by regulating expression of SIRT1. Following DNA damage, part of a differentiation checkpoint that limits self-renewal of hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs): up-regulated by STAT3, leading to differentiation of HSCs, thereby restricting self-renewal of HSCs (By similarity).	same
BAX	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the BCL2 protein family. BCL2 family members form hetero- or homodimers and act as anti- or pro-apoptotic regulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activities. This protein forms a heterodimer with BCL2, and functions as an apoptotic activator. This protein is reported to interact with, and increase the opening of, the mitochondrial voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC), which leads to the loss in membrane potential and the release of cytochrome c. The expression of this gene is regulated by the tumor suppressor P53 and has been shown to be involved in P53-mediated apoptosis. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants, which encode different isoforms, have been reported for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BAX (BCL2-Associated X Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BAX include leukemia, acute lymphoblastic and malignant teratoma. Among its related pathways are TGF-Beta Pathway and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and protein heterodimerization activity.	Accelerates programmed cell death by binding to, and antagonizing the apoptosis repressor BCL2 or its adenovirus homolog E1B 19k protein. Under stress conditions, undergoes a conformation change that causes translocation to the mitochondrion membrane, leading to the release of cytochrome c that then triggers apoptosis. Promotes activation of CASP3, and thereby apoptosis.	same
BAHD1	empty	BAHD1 (Bromo Adjacent Homology Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BAHD1 include listeriosis. GO annotations related to this gene include chromatin binding.	Heterochromatin protein that acts as a transcription repressor and has the ability to promote the formation of large heterochromatic domains. May act by recruiting heterochromatin proteins such as CBX5 (HP1 alpha), HDAC5 and MBD1. Represses IGF2 expression by binding to its CpG-rich P3 promoter and recruiting heterochromatin proteins. At specific stages of Listeria infection, in complex with TRIM28, corepresses interferon-stimulated genes, including IFNL1, IFNL2 and IFNL3.	same
BAT1	empty	empty	empty	same
BAZ1A	The BAZ1A gene encodes the accessory subunit of the ATP-dependent chromatin assembly factor (ACF), a member of the ISWI ('imitation switch') family of chromatin remodeling complexes (summarized by Racki et al., 2009 [PubMed 20033039]).[supplied by OMIM, Apr 2010]	BAZ1A (Bromodomain Adjacent To Zinc Finger Domain, 1A) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Chromatin Regulation / Acetylation. GO annotations related to this gene include histone acetyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is KAT2A.	Component of the ACF complex, an ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling complex, that regulates spacing of nucleosomes using ATP to generate evenly spaced nucleosomes along the chromatin. The ATPase activity of the complex is regulated by the length of flanking DNA. Also involved in facilitating the DNA replication process. BAZ1A is the accessory, non-catalytic subunit of the complex which can enhance and direct the process provided by the ATPase subunit, SMARCA5, probably through targeting pericentromeric heterochromatin in late S phase. Moves end-positioned nucleosomes to a predominantly central position. May have a role in nuclear receptor-mediated transcription repression	same
BAZ2B	empty	BAZ2B (Bromodomain Adjacent To Zinc Finger Domain, 2B) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is KAT2A.	May play a role in transcriptional regulation interacting with ISWI	same
BASP1	This gene encodes a membrane bound protein with several transient phosphorylation sites and PEST motifs. Conservation of proteins with PEST sequences among different species supports their functional significance. PEST sequences typically occur in proteins with high turnover rates. Immunological characteristics of this protein are species specific. This protein also undergoes N-terminal myristoylation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2012]	BASP1 (Brain Abundant, Membrane Attached Signal Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include transcription corepressor activity and protein domain specific binding.	empty	same
BAK1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the BCL2 protein family. BCL2 family members form oligomers or heterodimers and act as anti- or pro-apoptotic regulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activities. This protein localizes to mitochondria, and functions to induce apoptosis. It interacts with and accelerates the opening of the mitochondrial voltage-dependent anion channel, which leads to a loss in membrane potential and the release of cytochrome c. This protein also interacts with the tumor suppressor P53 after exposure to cell stress. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BAK1 (BCL2-Antagonist/Killer 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BAK1 include benign mammary dysplasia and telangiectasis. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and Apoptotic Pathways in Synovial Fibroblasts. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and protein heterodimerization activity. An important paralog of this gene is BCL2L2.	In the presence of an appropriate stimulus, accelerates programmed cell death by binding to, and antagonizing the anti-apoptotic action of BCL2 or its adenovirus homolog E1B 19k protein. Low micromolar levels of zinc ions inhibit the promotion of apoptosis.	same
BBS10	This gene is a member of the Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) gene family. Bardet-Biedl syndrome is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by progressive retinal degeneration, obesity, polydactyly, renal malformation and mental retardation. The proteins encoded by BBS gene family members are structurally diverse and the similar phenotypes exhibited by mutations in BBS gene family members is likely due to their shared roles in cilia formation and function. Many BBS proteins localize to the basal bodies, ciliary axonemes, and pericentriolar regions of cells. BBS proteins may also be involved in intracellular trafficking via microtubule-related transport. The protein encoded by this gene is likely not a ciliary protein but rather has distant sequence homology to type II chaperonins. As a molecular chaperone, this protein may affect the folding or stability of other ciliary or basal body proteins. Inhibition of this protein's expression impairs ciliogenesis in preadipocytes. Mutations in this gene cause Bardet-Biedl syndrome type 10. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]	BBS10 (Bardet-Biedl Syndrome 10) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BBS10 include bardet-biedl syndrome 10 and bbs10-related bardet-biedl syndrome.	Probable molecular chaperone. Assists the folding of proteins upon ATP hydrolysis. As part of the BBS/CCT complex may play a role in the assembly of BBSome, a complex involved in ciliogenesis regulating transports vesicles to the cilia. Involved in adipogenic differentiation.	same
BBS2	This gene is a member of the Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) gene family. Bardet-Biedl syndrome is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by severe pigmentary retinopathy, obesity, polydactyly, renal malformation and mental retardation. The proteins encoded by BBS gene family members are structurally diverse and the similar phenotypes exhibited by mutations in BBS gene family members is likely due to their shared roles in cilia formation and function. Many BBS proteins localize to the basal bodies, ciliary axonemes, and pericentriolar regions of cells. BBS proteins may also be involved in intracellular trafficking via microtubule-related transport. The protein encoded by this gene forms a multiprotein BBSome complex with seven other BBS proteins.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014]	BBS2 (Bardet-Biedl Syndrome 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BBS2 include bardet-biedl syndrome 2 and bbs2-related bardet-biedl syndrome.	The BBSome complex is thought to function as a coat complex required for sorting of specific membrane proteins to the primary cilia. The BBSome complex is required for ciliogenesis but is dispensable for centriolar satellite function. This ciliogenic function is mediated in part by the Rab8 GDP/GTP exchange factor, which localizes to the basal body and contacts the BBSome. Rab8(GTP) enters the primary cilium and promotes extension of the ciliary membrane. Firstly the BBSome associates with the ciliary membrane and binds to RAB3IP/Rabin8, the guanosyl exchange factor (GEF) for Rab8 and then the Rab8-GTP localizes to the cilium and promotes docking and fusion of carrier vesicles to the base of the ciliary membrane. The BBSome complex, together with the LTZL1, controls SMO ciliary trafficking and contributes to the sonic hedgehog (SHH) pathway regulation. Required for proper BBSome complex assembly and its ciliary localization.	same
BBS1	Mutations in this gene have been observed in patients with the major form (type 1) of Bardet-Biedl syndrome. The encoded protein may play a role in eye, limb, cardiac and reproductive system development. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BBS1 (Bardet-Biedl Syndrome 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BBS1 include bardet-biedl syndrome 1 and bbs1-related bardet-biedl syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include patched binding and smoothened binding. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000256349.	The BBSome complex is thought to function as a coat complex required for sorting of specific membrane proteins to the primary cilia. The BBSome complex is required for ciliogenesis but is dispensable for centriolar satellite function. This ciliogenic function is mediated in part by the Rab8 GDP/GTP exchange factor, which localizes to the basal body and contacts the BBSome. Rab8(GTP) enters the primary cilium and promotes extension of the ciliary membrane. Firstly the BBSome associates with the ciliary membrane and binds to RAB3IP/Rabin8, the guanosyl exchange factor (GEF) for Rab8 and then the Rab8-GTP localizes to the cilium and promotes docking and fusion of carrier vesicles to the base of the ciliary membrane. The BBSome complex, together with the LTZL1, controls SMO ciliary trafficking and contributes to the sonic hedgehog (SHH) pathway regulation. Required for proper BBSome complex assembly and its ciliary localization.	same
BBS12	The protein encoded by this gene is part of a complex that is involved in membrane trafficking. The encoded protein is a molecular chaperone that aids in protein folding upon ATP hydrolysis. This protein also plays a role in adipocyte differentiation. Defects in this gene are a cause of Bardet-Biedl syndrome type 12. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	BBS12 (Bardet-Biedl Syndrome 12) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BBS12 include bardet-biedl syndrome 12 and bbs12-related bardet-biedl syndrome.	Probable molecular chaperone. Assists the folding of proteins upon ATP hydrolysis. As part of the BBS/CCT complex may play a role in the assembly of BBSome, a complex involved in ciliogenesis regulating transports vesicles to the cilia. Involved in adipogenic differentiation.	same
BBS7	This gene encodes one of eight proteins that form the BBSome complex containing BBS1, BBS2, BBS4, BBS5, BBS7, BBS8, BBS9 and BBIP10. The BBSome complex is believed to recruit Rab8(GTP) to the primary cilium and promote ciliogenesis. The BBSome complex assembly is mediated by a complex composed of three chaperonin-like BBS proteins (BBS6, BBS10, and BBS12) and CCT/TRiC family chaperonins. Mutations in this gene are implicated in Bardet-Biedl syndrome, a genetic disorder whose symptoms include obesity, retinal degeneration, polydactyly and nephropathy; however, mutations in this gene and the BBS8 gene are thought to play a minor role and mutations in chaperonin-like BBS genes are found to be a major contributor to disease development in a multiethnic Bardet-Biedl syndrome patient population. Two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014]	BBS7 (Bardet-Biedl Syndrome 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BBS7 include bardet-biedl syndrome 7 and bbs7-related bardet-biedl syndrome.	The BBSome complex is thought to function as a coat complex required for sorting of specific membrane proteins to the primary cilia. The BBSome complex is required for ciliogenesis but is dispensable for centriolar satellite function. This ciliogenic function is mediated in part by the Rab8 GDP/GTP exchange factor, which localizes to the basal body and contacts the BBSome. Rab8(GTP) enters the primary cilium and promotes extension of the ciliary membrane. Firstly the BBSome associates with the ciliary membrane and binds to RAB3IP/Rabin8, the guanosyl exchange factor (GEF) for Rab8 and then the Rab8-GTP localizes to the cilium and promotes docking and fusion of carrier vesicles to the base of the ciliary membrane. The BBSome complex, together with the LTZL1, controls SMO ciliary trafficking and contributes to the sonic hedgehog (SHH) pathway regulation. Required for proper BBSome complex assembly and its ciliary localization.	same
BBS4	This gene is a member of the Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) gene family. Bardet-Biedl syndrome is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by severe pigmentary retinopathy, obesity, polydactyly, renal malformation and mental retardation. The proteins encoded by BBS gene family members are structurally diverse. The similar phenotypes exhibited by mutations in BBS gene family members are likely due to the protein's shared roles in cilia formation and function. Many BBS proteins localize to the basal bodies, ciliary axonemes, and pericentriolar regions of cells. BBS proteins may also be involved in intracellular trafficking via microtubule-related transport. The protein encoded by this gene has sequence similarity to O-linked N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc) transferases in plants and archaebacteria and in human forms a multi-protein "BBSome" complex with seven other BBS proteins. Alternative splice variants have been described but their predicted protein products have not been experimentally verified.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014]	BBS4 (Bardet-Biedl Syndrome 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BBS4 include bardet-biedl syndrome 4 and bbs4-related bardet-biedl syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include microtubule motor activity and alpha-tubulin binding. An important paralog of this gene is TTC8.	The BBSome complex is thought to function as a coat complex required for sorting of specific membrane proteins to the primary cilia. The BBSome complex is required for ciliogenesis but is dispensable for centriolar satellite function. This ciliogenic function is mediated in part by the Rab8 GDP/GTP exchange factor, which localizes to the basal body and contacts the BBSome. Rab8(GTP) enters the primary cilium and promotes extension of the ciliary membrane. Firstly the BBSome associates with the ciliary membrane and binds to RAB3IP/Rabin8, the guanosyl exchange factor (GEF) for Rab8 and then the Rab8-GTP localizes to the cilium and promotes docking and fusion of carrier vesicles to the base of the ciliary membrane. The BBSome complex, together with the LTZL1, controls SMO ciliary trafficking and contributes to the sonic hedgehog (SHH) pathway regulation. Required for proper BBSome complex assembly and its ciliary localization. Required for microtubule anchoring at the centrosome but not for microtubule nucleation. May be required for the dynein-mediated transport of pericentriolar proteins to the centrosome.	same
BBC3	This gene encodes a member of the BCL-2 family of proteins. This family member belongs to the BH3-only pro-apoptotic subclass. The protein cooperates with direct activator proteins to induce mitochondrial outer membrane permeabilization and apoptosis. It can bind to anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 family members to induce mitochondrial dysfunction and caspase activation. Because of its pro-apoptotic role, this gene is a potential drug target for cancer therapy and for tissue injury. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	BBC3 (BCL2 Binding Component 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BBC3 include colorectal cancer. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and Apoptotic Pathways in Synovial Fibroblasts.	Essential mediator of p53/TP53-dependent and p53/TP53-independent apoptosis. Isoform 3 fails to show any growth-inhibitory or apoptotic activity	same
BAT5	A cluster of genes, BAT1-BAT5, has been localized in the vicinity of the genes for tumor necrosis factor alpha and tumor necrosis factor beta. These genes are all within the human major histocompatibility complex class III region. The protein encoded by this gene is thought to be involved in some aspects of immunity. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]	ABHD16A (Abhydrolase Domain Containing 16A) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrolase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ABHD16B.	empty	diff
BCAM	This gene encodes Lutheran blood group glycoprotein, a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily and a receptor for the extracellular matrix protein, laminin. The protein contains five extracellular immunoglobulin domains, a single transmembrane domain, and a short C-terminal cytoplasmic tail. This protein may play a role in epithelial cell cancer and in vaso-occlusion of red blood cells in sickle cell disease. Polymorphisms in this gene define some of the antigens in the Lutheran system and also the Auberger system. Inactivating variants of this gene result in the recessive Lutheran null phenotype, Lu(a-b-), of the Lutheran blood group. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]	BCAM (Basal Cell Adhesion Molecule (Lutheran Blood Group)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BCAM include testicular gonadoblastoma and sickle cell disease. GO annotations related to this gene include transmembrane signaling receptor activity and laminin receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is ALCAM.	Laminin alpha-5 receptor. May mediate intracellular signaling.	same
BBS9	This gene is downregulated by parathyroid hormone in osteoblastic cells, and therefore, is thought to be involved in parathyroid hormone action in bones. The exact function of this gene has not yet been determined. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BBS9 (Bardet-Biedl Syndrome 9) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BBS9 include bardet-biedl syndrome 9 and bbs9-related bardet-biedl syndrome.	The BBSome complex is thought to function as a coat complex required for sorting of specific membrane proteins to the primary cilia. The BBSome complex is required for ciliogenesis but is dispensable for centriolar satellite function. This ciliogenic function is mediated in part by the Rab8 GDP/GTP exchange factor, which localizes to the basal body and contacts the BBSome. Rab8(GTP) enters the primary cilium and promotes extension of the ciliary membrane. Firstly the BBSome associates with the ciliary membrane and binds to RAB3IP/Rabin8, the guanosyl exchange factor (GEF) for Rab8 and then the Rab8-GTP localizes to the cilium and promotes docking and fusion of carrier vesicles to the base of the ciliary membrane. Required for proper BBSome complex assembly and its ciliary localization.	same
BCAP29	empty	BCAP29 (B-Cell Receptor-Associated Protein 29) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is BCAP31.	May play a role in anterograde transport of membrane proteins from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi. May be involved in CASP8-mediated apoptosis (By similarity).	same
BCAP31	This gene encodes a member of the B-cell receptor associated protein 31 superfamily. The encoded protein is a multi-pass transmembrane protein of the endoplasmic reticulum that is involved in the anterograde transport of membrane proteins from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi and in caspase 8-mediated apoptosis. Microdeletions in this gene are associated with contiguous ABCD1/DXS1375E deletion syndrome (CADDS), a neonatal disorder. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. Two related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosome 16. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]	BCAP31 (B-Cell Receptor-Associated Protein 31) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BCAP31 include deafness, dystonia, and cerebral hypomyelination and cadds. Among its related pathways are Akt Signaling and p70S6K Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding. An important paralog of this gene is BCAP29.	Functions as a chaperone protein. Is one of the most abundant endoplasmic reticulum (ER) proteins. Plays a role in the export of secreted proteins in the ER, the recognition of abnormally folded protein and their targeting to the ER associated-degradation (ERAD). Also serves as a cargo receptor for the export of transmembrane proteins. May be involved in CASP8-mediated apoptosis.	same
BCAR4	empty	BCAR4 (Breast Cancer Anti-Estrogen Resistance 4 (Non-Protein Coding)) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class. Diseases associated with BCAR4 include breast cancer.	empty	same
BCAN	This gene encodes a member of the lectican family of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans that is specifically expressed in the central nervous system. This protein is developmentally regulated and may function in the formation of the brain extracellular matrix. This protein is highly expressed in gliomas and may promote the growth and cell motility of brain tumor cells. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]	BCAN (Brevican) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Disease and Degradation of the extracellular matrix. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding and hyaluronic acid binding. An important paralog of this gene is HAPLN1.	May play a role in the terminally differentiating and the adult nervous system during postnatal development. Could stabilize interactions between hyaluronan (HA) and brain proteoglycans	same
BCAR1	BCAR1, or CAS, is an Src (MIM 190090) family kinase substrate involved in various cellular events, including migration, survival, transformation, and invasion (Sawada et al., 2006 [PubMed 17129785]).[supplied by OMIM, May 2009]	BCAR1 (Breast Cancer Anti-Estrogen Resistance 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BCAR1 include differentiating neuroblastoma and breast cancer. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and SH3 domain binding. An important paralog of this gene is NEDD9.	Docking protein which plays a central coordinating role for tyrosine kinase-based signaling related to cell adhesion. Implicated in induction of cell migration. Overexpression confers antiestrogen resistance on breast cancer cells.	same
BCAR3	Breast tumors are initially dependent on estrogens for growth and progression and can be inhibited by anti-estrogens such as tamoxifen. However, breast cancers progress to become anti-estrogen resistant. Breast cancer anti-estrogen resistance gene 3 was identified in the search for genes involved in the development of estrogen resistance. The gene encodes a component of intracellular signal transduction that causes estrogen-independent proliferation in human breast cancer cells. The protein contains a putative src homology 2 (SH2) domain, a hall mark of cellular tyrosine kinase signaling molecules, and is partly homologous to the cell division cycle protein CDC48. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]	BCAR3 (Breast Cancer Anti-Estrogen Resistance 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BCAR3 include venezuelan equine encephalitis and breast cancer. Among its related pathways are Regulation of CDC42 activity. GO annotations related to this gene include guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is SH2D3A.	May act as an adapter protein and couple activated growth factor receptors to a signaling pathway that regulates the proliferation in breast cancer cells. When overexpressed, it confers anti-estrogen resistance in breast cancer cell lines. May also be regulated by cellular adhesion to extracellular matrix proteins.	same
BAZ1B	This gene encodes a member of the bromodomain protein family. The bromodomain is a structural motif characteristic of proteins involved in chromatin-dependent regulation of transcription. This gene is deleted in Williams-Beuren syndrome, a developmental disorder caused by deletion of multiple genes at 7q11.23. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BAZ1B (Bromodomain Adjacent To Zinc Finger Domain, 1B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BAZ1B include williams-beuren syndrome. Among its related pathways are Chromatin Regulation / Acetylation. GO annotations related to this gene include chromatin binding and non-membrane spanning protein tyrosine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is KAT2A.	Atypical tyrosine-protein kinase that plays a central role in chromatin remodeling and acts as a transcription regulator. Involved in DNA damage response by phosphorylating Tyr-142 of histone H2AX (H2AXY142ph). H2AXY142ph plays a central role in DNA repair and acts as a mark that distinguishes between apoptotic and repair responses to genotoxic stress. Essential component of the WICH complex, a chromatin remodeling complex that mobilizes nucleosomes and reconfigures irregular chromatin to a regular nucleosomal array structure. The WICH complex regulates the transcription of various genes, has a role in RNA polymerase I and RNA polymerase III transcription, mediates the histone H2AX phosphorylation at Tyr-142, and is involved in the maintenance of chromatin structures during DNA replication processes. In the complex, it mediates the recruitment of the WICH complex to replication foci during DNA replication.	same
BCAS2	empty	BCAS2 (Breast Carcinoma Amplified Sequence 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BCAS2 include breast cancer. Among its related pathways are Spliceosome.	Component of the PRP19-CDC5L complex that forms an integral part of the spliceosome and is required for activating pre-mRNA splicing. May have a scaffolding role in the spliceosome assembly as it contacts all other components of the core complex. The PRP19-CDC5L complex may also play a role in the response to DNA damage (DDR).	same
BCAS3	empty	BCAS3 (Breast Carcinoma Amplified Sequence 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BCAS3 include breast cancer.	Plays a role in angiogenesis. Participates in the regulation of cell polarity and directional endothelial cell migration by mediating both the activation and recruitment of CDC42 and the reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton at the cell leading edge. Promotes filipodia formation (By similarity). Functions synergistically with PELP1 as a transcriptional coactivator of estrogen receptor-responsive genes. Stimulates histone acetyltransferase activity. Binds to chromatin.	same
BCAS1	This gene resides in a region at 20q13 which is amplified in a variety of tumor types and associated with more aggressive tumor phenotypes. Among the genes identified from this region, it was found to be highly expressed in three amplified breast cancer cell lines and in one breast tumor without amplification at 20q13.2. However, this gene is not in the common region of maximal amplification and its expression was not detected in the breast cancer cell line MCF7, in which this region is highly amplified. Although not consistently expressed, this gene is a candidate oncogene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BCAS1 (Breast Carcinoma Amplified Sequence 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BCAS1 include breast cancer.	empty	same
BCAS4	empty	BCAS4 (Breast Carcinoma Amplified Sequence 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BCAS4 include choanal atresia. An important paralog of this gene is BLOC1S4.	empty	same
BCAT1	This gene encodes the cytosolic form of the enzyme branched-chain amino acid transaminase. This enzyme catalyzes the reversible transamination of branched-chain alpha-keto acids to branched-chain L-amino acids essential for cell growth. Two different clinical disorders have been attributed to a defect of branched-chain amino acid transamination: hypervalinemia and hyperleucine-isoleucinemia. As there is also a gene encoding a mitochondrial form of this enzyme, mutations in either gene may contribute to these disorders. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	BCAT1 (Branched Chain Amino-Acid Transaminase 1, Cytosolic) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BCAT1 include hyperleucine-isoleucinemia. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Carbon metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and L-valine transaminase activity. An important paralog of this gene is BCAT2.	Catalyzes the first reaction in the catabolism of the essential branched chain amino acids leucine, isoleucine, and valine	same
BCDIN3D	empty	BCDIN3D (BCDIN3 Domain Containing) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include O-methyltransferase activity and RNA methyltransferase activity.	O-methyltransferase that specifically dimethylates the 5 monophosphate of pre-miRNAs, acting as a negative regulator of miRNA processing. The 5 monophosphate of pre-miRNAs is recognized by DICER1 and is required for pre-miRNAs processing: methylation at this position reduces the processing of pre-miRNAs by DICER1. Able to mediate methylation of pre-miR-145, as well as other pre-miRNAs.	same
BCCIP	This gene product was isolated on the basis of its interaction with BRCA2 and p21 proteins. It is an evolutionarily conserved nuclear protein with multiple interacting domains. The N-terminal half shares moderate homology with regions of calmodulin and M-calpain, suggesting that it may also bind calcium. Functional studies indicate that this protein may be an important cofactor for BRCA2 in tumor suppression, and a modulator of CDK2 kinase activity via p21. This protein has also been implicated in the regulation of BRCA2 and RAD51 nuclear focus formation, double-strand break-induced homologous recombination, and cell cycle progression. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BCCIP (BRCA2 And CDKN1A Interacting Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BCCIP include breast cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include kinase regulator activity.	May promote cell cycle arrest by enhancing the inhibition of CDK2 activity by CDKN1A. May be required for repair of DNA damage by homologous recombination in conjunction with BRCA2. May not be involved in non-homologous end joining (NHEJ).	same
BCAT2	This gene encodes a branched chain aminotransferase found in mitochondria. The encoded protein forms a dimer that catalyzes the first step in the production of the branched chain amino acids leucine, isoleucine, and valine. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]	BCAT2 (Branched Chain Amino-Acid Transaminase 2, Mitochondrial) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BCAT2 include hyperleucine-isoleucinemia. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Carbon metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include L-leucine transaminase activity and L-isoleucine transaminase activity. An important paralog of this gene is BCAT1.	Catalyzes the first reaction in the catabolism of the essential branched chain amino acids leucine, isoleucine, and valine. May also function as a transporter of branched chain alpha-keto acids	same
BCHE	Mutant alleles at the BCHE locus are responsible for suxamethonium sensitivity. Homozygous persons sustain prolonged apnea after administration of the muscle relaxant suxamethonium in connection with surgical anesthesia. The activity of pseudocholinesterase in the serum is low and its substrate behavior is atypical. In the absence of the relaxant, the homozygote is at no known disadvantage. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BCHE (Butyrylcholinesterase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BCHE include pseudocholinesterase deficiency and curariform drugs toxicity. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is CES2.	Esterase with broad substrate specificity. Contributes to the inactivation of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine. Can degrade neurotoxic organophosphate esters.	same
BBX	empty	BBX (Bobby Sox Homolog (Drosophila)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BBX include lymphocytic gastritis. An important paralog of this gene is CIC.	Transcription factor that is necessary for cell cycle progression from G1 to S phase.	same
BBS5	This gene encodes a protein that has been directly linked to Bardet-Biedl syndrome. The primary features of this syndrome include retinal dystrophy, obesity, polydactyly, renal abnormalities and learning disabilities. Experimentation in non-human eukaryotes suggests that this gene is expressed in ciliated cells and that it is required for the formation of cilia. Alternate transcriptional splice variants have been observed but have not been fully characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BBS5 (Bardet-Biedl Syndrome 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BBS5 include bardet-biedl syndrome 5 and bbs5-related bardet-biedl syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate binding. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000251569.	The BBSome complex is thought to function as a coat complex required for sorting of specific membrane proteins to the primary cilia. The BBSome complex is required for ciliogenesis but is dispensable for centriolar satellite function. This ciliogenic function is mediated in part by the Rab8 GDP/GTP exchange factor, which localizes to the basal body and contacts the BBSome. Rab8(GTP) enters the primary cilium and promotes extension of the ciliary membrane. Firstly the BBSome associates with the ciliary membrane and binds to RAB3IP/Rabin8, the guanosyl exchange factor (GEF) for Rab8 and then the Rab8-GTP localizes to the cilium and promotes docking and fusion of carrier vesicles to the base of the ciliary membrane. The BBSome complex, together with the LTZL1, controls SMO ciliary trafficking and contributes to the sonic hedgehog (SHH) pathway regulation. Required for BBSome complex ciliary localization but not for the proper complex assembly.	same
BCKDHB	Branched-chain keto acid dehydrogenase is a multienzyme complex associated with the inner membrane of mitochondria, and functions in the catabolism of branched-chain amino acids. The complex consists of multiple copies of 3 components: branched-chain alpha-keto acid decarboxylase (E1), lipoamide acyltransferase (E2) and lipoamide dehydrogenase (E3). This gene encodes the E1 beta subunit, and mutations therein have been associated with maple syrup urine disease (MSUD), type 1B, a disease characterized by a maple syrup odor to the urine in addition to mental and physical retardation, and feeding problems. Alternative splicing at this locus results in transcript variants with different 3' non-coding regions, but encoding the same isoform. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BCKDHB (Branched Chain Keto Acid Dehydrogenase E1, Beta Polypeptide) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BCKDHB include maple syrup urine disease, type ii and intermediate maple syrup urine disease. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include protein complex binding and alpha-ketoacid dehydrogenase activity. An important paralog of this gene is PDHB.	The branched-chain alpha-keto dehydrogenase complex catalyzes the overall conversion of alpha-keto acids to acyl-CoA and CO(2). It contains multiple copies of three enzymatic components: branched-chain alpha-keto acid decarboxylase (E1), lipoamide acyltransferase (E2) and lipoamide dehydrogenase (E3)	same
BCL11B	This gene encodes a C2H2-type zinc finger protein and is closely related to BCL11A, a gene whose translocation may be associated with B-cell malignancies. Although the specific function of this gene has not been determined, the encoded protein is known to be a transcriptional repressor, and is regulated by the NURD nucleosome remodeling and histone deacetylase complex. Four alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2013]	BCL11B (B-Cell CLL/Lymphoma 11B (Zinc Finger Protein)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA polymerase II core promoter proximal region sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity involved in positive regulation of transcription and RNA polymerase II core promoter proximal region sequence-specific DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is BCL11A.	Tumor-suppressor protein involved in T-cell lymphomas. May function on the P53-signaling pathway. May be a key regulator of both differentiation and survival during thymocyte development. Repress transcription through direct, TFCOUP2-independent binding to a GC-rich response element (By similarity).	same
BCL10	This gene was identified by its translocation in a case of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma. The protein encoded by this gene contains a caspase recruitment domain (CARD), and has been shown to induce apoptosis and to activate NF-kappaB. This protein is reported to interact with other CARD domain containing proteins including CARD9, 10, 11 and 14, which are thought to function as upstream regulators in NF-kappaB signaling. This protein is found to form a complex with MALT1, a protein encoded by another gene known to be translocated in MALT lymphoma. MALT1 and this protein are thought to synergize in the activation of NF-kappaB, and the deregulation of either of them may contribute to the same pathogenetic process that leads to the malignancy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BCL10 (B-Cell CLL/Lymphoma 10) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BCL10 include immunodeficiency 37 and testicular germ cell tumor. Among its related pathways are PI-3K cascade and Downstream Signaling Events Of B Cell Receptor (BCR). GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and enzyme binding.	Involved in adaptive immune response (PubMed:25365219). Promotes apoptosis, pro-caspase-9 maturation and activation of NF-kappa-B via NIK and IKK. May be an adapter protein between upstream TNFR1-TRADD-RIP complex and the downstream NIK-IKK-IKAP complex. Is a substrate for MALT1 (PubMed:18264101).	same
BCL2L10	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the BCL-2 protein family. BCL-2 family members form hetero- or homodimers and act as anti- or pro-apoptotic regulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activities. The protein encoded by this gene contains conserved BH4, BH1 and BH2 domains. This protein can interact with other members of BCL-2 protein family including BCL2, BCL2L1/BCL-X(L), and BAX. Overexpression of this gene has been shown to suppress cell apoptosis possibly through the prevention of cytochrome C release from the mitochondria, and thus activating caspase-3 activation. The mouse counterpart of this protein is found to interact with Apaf1 and forms a protein complex with Caspase 9, which suggests the involvement of this protein in APAF1 and CASPASE 9 related apoptotic pathway. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BCL2L10 (BCL2-Like 10 (Apoptosis Facilitator)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Apoptosis (WikiPathways) and Apoptosis and Autophagy.	Promotes cell survival. Suppresses apoptosis induced by BAX but not BAK.	same
BCL11A	This gene encodes a C2H2 type zinc-finger protein by its similarity to the mouse Bcl11a/Evi9 protein. The corresponding mouse gene is a common site of retroviral integration in myeloid leukemia, and may function as a leukemia disease gene, in part, through its interaction with BCL6. During hematopoietic cell differentiation, this gene is down-regulated. It is possibly involved in lymphoma pathogenesis since translocations associated with B-cell malignancies also deregulates its expression. Multiple transcript variants encoding several different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BCL11A (B-Cell CLL/Lymphoma 11A (Zinc Finger Protein)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BCL11A include hereditary persistence of fetal hemoglobin - beta-thalassemia and hypersomnia. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and nucleic acid binding. An important paralog of this gene is ZNF296.	Functions as a myeloid and B-cell proto-oncogene. May play important roles in leukemogenesis and hematopoiesis. An essential factor in lymphopoiesis, is required for B-cell formation in fetal liver. May function as a modulator of the transcriptional repression activity of ARP1 (By similarity).	same
BCL2L12	This gene encodes a member of a family of proteins containing a Bcl-2 homology domain 2 (BH2). The encoded protein is an anti-apoptotic factor that acts as an inhibitor of caspases 3 and 7 in the cytoplasm. In the nucleus, it binds to the p53 tumor suppressor protein, preventing its association with target genes. Overexpression of this gene has been detected in a number of different cancers. There is a pseudogene for this gene on chromosome 3. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2013]	BCL2L12 (BCL2-Like 12 (Proline Rich)) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
BCKDHA	The branched-chain alpha-keto acid (BCAA) dehydrogenase (BCKD) complex is an innter mitochondrial enzyme complex that catalyzes the second major step in the catabolism of the branched-chain amino acids leucine, isoleucine, and valine. The BCKD complex consists of three catalytic components: a heterotetrameric (alpha2-beta2) branched-chain alpha-keto acid decarboxylase (E1), a dihydrolipoyl transacylase (E2), and a dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase (E3). This gene encodes the alpha subunit of the decarboxylase (E1) component. Mutations in this gene result in maple syrup urine disease, type IA. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]	BCKDHA (Branched Chain Keto Acid Dehydrogenase E1, Alpha Polypeptide) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BCKDHA include maple syrup urine disease, type ii and intermediate maple syrup urine disease. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include carboxy-lyase activity and 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoate dehydrogenase (2-methylpropanoyl-transferring) activity. An important paralog of this gene is PDHA2.	The branched-chain alpha-keto dehydrogenase complex catalyzes the overall conversion of alpha-keto acids to acyl-CoA and CO(2). It contains multiple copies of three enzymatic components: branched-chain alpha-keto acid decarboxylase (E1), lipoamide acyltransferase (E2) and lipoamide dehydrogenase (E3)	same
BCKDK	The branched-chain alpha-ketoacid dehydrogenase complex (BCKD) is an important regulator of the valine, leucine, and isoleucine catabolic pathways. The protein encoded by this gene is found in the mitochondrion, where it phosphorylates and inactivates BCKD. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]	BCKDK (Branched Chain Ketoacid Dehydrogenase Kinase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BCKDK include branched-chain ketoacid dehydrogenase kinase deficiency and autism-epilepsy syndrome due to branched chain ketoacid dehydrogenase kinase deficiency. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and [3-methyl-2-oxobutanoate dehydrogenase (acetyl-transferring)] kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is PDK2.	Catalyzes the phosphorylation and inactivation of the branched-chain alpha-ketoacid dehydrogenase complex, the key regulatory enzyme of the valine, leucine and isoleucine catabolic pathways. Key enzyme that regulate the activity state of the BCKD complex.	same
BCL2L14	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the BCL2 protein family. BCL2 family members form hetero- or homodimers and act as anti- or pro-apoptotic regulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activities. Overexpression of this gene has been shown to induce apoptosis in cells. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding two distinct isoforms have been reported for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2009]	BCL2L14 (BCL2-Like 14 (Apoptosis Facilitator)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Direct p53 effectors. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding.	Plays a role in apoptosis	same
BCL2L15	empty	BCL2L15 (BCL2-Like 15) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
BCL2L13	This gene encodes a mitochondrially-localized protein with conserved B-cell lymphoma 2 homology motifs. Overexpression of the encoded protein results in apoptosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]	BCL2L13 (BCL2-Like 13 (Apoptosis Facilitator)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BCL2L13 include cat eye syndrome. Among its related pathways are Legionellosis. GO annotations related to this gene include cysteine-type endopeptidase activator activity involved in apoptotic process.	May promote the activation of caspase-3 and apoptosis	same
BBOX1	This gene encodes gamma butyrobetaine hydroxylase which catalyzes the formation of L-carnitine from gamma-butyrobetaine, the last step in the L-carnitine biosynthetic pathway. Carnitine is essential for the transport of activated fatty acids across the mitochondrial membrane during mitochondrial beta-oxidation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BBOX1 (Butyrobetaine (Gamma), 2-Oxoglutarate Dioxygenase (Gamma-Butyrobetaine Hydroxylase) 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BBOX1 include mulibrey nanism. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism of amino acids and derivatives. GO annotations related to this gene include iron ion binding and gamma-butyrobetaine dioxygenase activity. An important paralog of this gene is TMLHE.	Catalyzes the formation of L-carnitine from gamma-butyrobetaine	same
BCL3	This gene is a proto-oncogene candidate. It is identified by its translocation into the immunoglobulin alpha-locus in some cases of B-cell leukemia. The protein encoded by this gene contains seven ankyrin repeats, which are most closely related to those found in I kappa B proteins. This protein functions as a transcriptional co-activator that activates through its association with NF-kappa B homodimers. The expression of this gene can be induced by NF-kappa B, which forms a part of the autoregulatory loop that controls the nuclear residence of p50 NF-kappa B. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BCL3 (B-Cell CLL/Lymphoma 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BCL3 include mature b-cell neoplasm and translocation renal cell carcinoma. Among its related pathways are NF-KappaB Family Pathway and Atypical NF-kappaB pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and protein binding, bridging. An important paralog of this gene is NFKBIA.	Contributes to the regulation of transcriptional activation of NF-kappa-B target genes. In the cytoplasm, inhibits the nuclear translocation of the NF-kappa-B p50 subunit. In the nucleus, acts as transcriptional activator that promotes transcription of NF-kappa-B target genes. Contributes to the regulation of cell proliferation (By similarity).	same
BCL6B	empty	BCL6B (B-Cell CLL/Lymphoma 6, Member B) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is BCL6.	Acts as a sequence-specific transcriptional repressor in association with BCL6. May function in a narrow stage or be related to some events in the early B-cell development.	same
BCL7A	This gene is directly involved, with Myc and IgH, in a three-way gene translocation in a Burkitt lymphoma cell line. As a result of the gene translocation, the N-terminal region of the gene product is disrupted, which is thought to be related to the pathogenesis of a subset of high-grade B cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma. The N-terminal segment involved in the translocation includes the region that shares a strong sequence similarity with those of BCL7B and BCL7C. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BCL7A (B-Cell CLL/Lymphoma 7A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BCL7A include burkitt lymphoma and hodgkin lymphoma. An important paralog of this gene is BCL7B.	empty	same
BCL6	The protein encoded by this gene is a zinc finger transcription factor and contains an N-terminal POZ domain. This protein acts as a sequence-specific repressor of transcription, and has been shown to modulate the transcription of START-dependent IL-4 responses of B cells. This protein can interact with a variety of POZ-containing proteins that function as transcription corepressors. This gene is found to be frequently translocated and hypermutated in diffuse large-cell lymphoma (DLCL), and may be involved in the pathogenesis of DLCL. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different protein isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008]	BCL6 (B-Cell CLL/Lymphoma 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BCL6 include intravascular large b-cell lymphoma and primary mediastinal large b-cell lymphoma. Among its related pathways are IL4-mediated signaling events and B Cell Receptor Signaling Pathway (WikiPathways). GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and chromatin binding. An important paralog of this gene is BCL6B.	Transcriptional repressor mainly required for germinal center (GC) formation and antibody affinity maturation which has different mechanisms of action specific to the lineage and biological functions. Forms complexes with different corepressors and histone deacetylases to repress the transcriptional expression of different subsets of target genes. Represses its target genes by binding directly to the DNA sequence 5-TTCCTAGAA-3 (BCL6-binding site) or indirectly by repressing the transcriptional activity of transcription factors. In GC B-cells, represses genes that function in differentiation, inflammation, apoptosis and cell cycle control, also autoregulates its transcriptional expression and up-regulates, indirectly, the expression of some genes important for GC reactions, such as AICDA, through the repression of microRNAs expression, like miR155. An important function is to allow GC B-cells to proliferate very rapidly in response to T-cell dependent antigens and tolerate the physiological DNA breaks required for immunglobulin class switch recombination and somatic hypermutation without inducing a p53/TP53-dependent apoptotic response. In follicular helper CD4(+) T-cells (T(FH) cells), promotes the expression of T(FH)-related genes but inhibits the differentiation of T(H)1, T(H)2 and T(H)17 cells. Also required for the establishment and maintenance of immunological memory for both T- and B-cells. Suppresses macrophage proliferation through competition with STAT5 for STAT-binding motifs binding on certain target genes, such as CCL2 and CCND2. In response to genotoxic stress, controls cell cycle arrest in GC B-cells in both p53/TP53-dependedent and -independent manners. Besides, also controls neurogenesis through the alteration of the composition of NOTCH-dependent transcriptional complexes at selective NOTCH targets, such as HES5, including the recruitment of the deacetylase SIRT1 and resulting in an epigenetic silencing leading to neuronal differentiation.	same
BCL2	This gene encodes an integral outer mitochondrial membrane protein that blocks the apoptotic death of some cells such as lymphocytes. Constitutive expression of BCL2, such as in the case of translocation of BCL2 to Ig heavy chain locus, is thought to be the cause of follicular lymphoma. Two transcript variants, produced by alternate splicing, differ in their C-terminal ends. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BCL2 (B-Cell CLL/Lymphoma 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BCL2 include follicular lymphoma and intravascular large b-cell lymphoma. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and identical protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is BAK1.	Suppresses apoptosis in a variety of cell systems including factor-dependent lymphohematopoietic and neural cells. Regulates cell death by controlling the mitochondrial membrane permeability. Appears to function in a feedback loop system with caspases. Inhibits caspase activity either by preventing the release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria and/or by binding to the apoptosis-activating factor (APAF-1).	same
BCL2L1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the BCL-2 protein family. BCL-2 family members form hetero- or homodimers and act as anti- or pro-apoptotic regulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activities. The proteins encoded by this gene are located at the outer mitochondrial membrane, and have been shown to regulate outer mitochondrial membrane channel (VDAC) opening. VDAC regulates mitochondrial membrane potential, and thus controls the production of reactive oxygen species and release of cytochrome C by mitochondria, both of which are the potent inducers of cell apoptosis. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants, which encode distinct isoforms, have been reported. The longer isoform acts as an apoptotic inhibitor and the shorter form acts as an apoptotic activator. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BCL2L1 (BCL2-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BCL2L1 include alk-negative anaplastic large cell lymphoma and natural killer cell leukemia. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Ras signaling pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and protein kinase binding. An important paralog of this gene is BAK1.	Potent inhibitor of cell death. Inhibits activation of caspases. Appears to regulate cell death by blocking the voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC) by binding to it and preventing the release of the caspase activator, CYC1, from the mitochondrial membrane. Also acts as a regulator of G2 checkpoint and progression to cytokinesis during mitosis	same
BCL8	empty	NBEAP1 (Neurobeachin Pseudogene 1) is a Pseudogene.	empty	diff
BCL7C	This gene is identified by the similarity of its product to the N-terminal region of BCL7A protein. The BCL7A protein is encoded by the gene known to be directly involved in a three-way gene translocation in a Burkitt lymphoma cell line. The function of this gene has not yet been determined. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2013]	BCL7C (B-Cell CLL/Lymphoma 7C) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BCL7C include burkitt lymphoma. An important paralog of this gene is BCL7A.	May play an anti-apoptotic role.	same
BCL7B	This gene encodes a member of the BCL7 family including BCL7A, BCL7B and BCL7C proteins. This member is BCL7B, which contains a region that is highly similar to the N-terminal segment of BCL7A or BCL7C proteins. The BCL7A protein is encoded by the gene known to be directly involved in a three-way gene translocation in a Burkitt lymphoma cell line. This gene is located at a chromosomal region commonly deleted in Williams syndrome. This gene is highly conserved from C. elegans to human. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]	BCL7B (B-Cell CLL/Lymphoma 7B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BCL7B include burkitt lymphoma. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding. An important paralog of this gene is BCL7A.	May play a role in lung tumor development or progression	same
BCL2A1	This gene encodes a member of the BCL-2 protein family. The proteins of this family form hetero- or homodimers and act as anti- and pro-apoptotic regulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activities such as embryonic development, homeostasis and tumorigenesis. The protein encoded by this gene is able to reduce the release of pro-apoptotic cytochrome c from mitochondria and block caspase activation. This gene is a direct transcription target of NF-kappa B in response to inflammatory mediators, and is up-regulated by different extracellular signals, such as granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), CD40, phorbol ester and inflammatory cytokine TNF and IL-1, which suggests a cytoprotective function that is essential for lymphocyte activation as well as cell survival. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BCL2A1 (BCL2-Related Protein A1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BCL2A1 include glucocorticoid resistance and stomach cancer. Among its related pathways are Apoptotic Pathways in Synovial Fibroblasts and Transcriptional misregulation in cancer.	Retards apoptosis induced by IL-3 deprivation. May function in the response of hemopoietic cells to external signals and in maintaining endothelial survival during infection (By similarity).	same
BCLAF1	This gene encodes a transcriptional repressor that interacts with several members of the BCL2 family of proteins. Overexpression of this protein induces apoptosis, which can be suppressed by co-expression of BCL2 proteins. The protein localizes to dot-like structures throughout the nucleus, and redistributes to a zone near the nuclear envelope in cells undergoing apoptosis. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BCLAF1 (BCL2-Associated Transcription Factor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CXorf23.	Death-promoting transcriptional repressor. May be involved in cyclin-D1/CCND1 mRNA stability through the SNARP complex which associates with both the 3end of the CCND1 gene and its mRNA.	same
BCMO1	Vitamin A metabolism is important for vital processes such as vision, embryonic development, cell differentiation, and membrane and skin protection. The protein encoded by this gene is a key enzyme in beta-carotene metabolism to vitamin A. It catalyzes the oxidative cleavage of beta,beta-carotene into two retinal molecules. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BCO1 (Beta-Carotene Oxygenase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. An important paralog of this gene is BCO2.	Symmetrically cleaves beta-carotene into two molecules of retinal. The reaction proceeds in three stages, epoxidation of the 15,15-double bond, hydration of the double bond leading to ring opening, and oxidative cleavage of the diol formed	diff
BCORL1	The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional corepressor that is found tethered to promoter regions by DNA-binding proteins. The encoded protein can interact with several different class II histone deacetylases to repress transcription. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	BCORL1 (BCL6 Corepressor-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ANKRD11.	Transcriptional corepressor. May specifically inhibit gene expression when recruited to promoter regions by sequence-specific DNA-binding proteins such as BCL6. This repression may be mediated at least in part by histone deacetylase activities which can associate with this corepressor.	same
BCL9	BCL9 is associated with B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. It may be a target of translocation in B-cell malignancies with abnormalities of 1q21. Its function is unknown. The overexpression of BCL9 may be of pathogenic significance in B-cell malignancies. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BCL9 (B-Cell CLL/Lymphoma 9) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BCL9 include lymphoblastic leukemia. Among its related pathways are Regulation of Wnt-mediated beta catenin signaling and target gene transcription and Wnt signaling pathway (KEGG). GO annotations related to this gene include beta-catenin binding. An important paralog of this gene is BCL9L.	Involved in signal transduction through the Wnt pathway. Promotes beta-catenins transcriptional activity (By similarity).	same
BCORL2	empty	BCORP1 (BCL6 Corepressor Pseudogene 1) is a Pseudogene.	empty	diff
BCOR	The protein encoded by this gene was identified as an interacting corepressor of BCL6, a POZ/zinc finger transcription repressor that is required for germinal center formation and may influence apoptosis. This protein selectively interacts with the POZ domain of BCL6, but not with eight other POZ proteins. Specific class I and II histone deacetylases (HDACs) have been shown to interact with this protein, which suggests a possible link between the two classes of HDACs. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome Y.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	BCOR (BCL6 Corepressor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BCOR include microphthalmia, syndromic 2 and florid cemento-osseous dysplasia. Among its related pathways are Signaling events mediated by HDAC Class II. GO annotations related to this gene include transcription factor binding and transcription corepressor activity. An important paralog of this gene is BCORL1.	Transcriptional corepressor. May specifically inhibit gene expression when recruited to promoter regions by sequence-specific DNA-binding proteins such as BCL6 and MLLT3. This repression may be mediated at least in part by histone deacetylase activities which can associate with this corepressor. Involved in the repression of TFAP2A; impairs binding of BCL6 and KDM2B to TFAP2A promoter regions. Via repression of TFAP2A acts as a negative regulator of osteo-dentiogenic capacity in adult stem cells; the function implies inhibition of methylation on histone H3 Lys-4 (H3K4me3) and Lys-36 (H3K36me2).	same
BCL2L11	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the BCL-2 protein family. BCL-2 family members form hetero- or homodimers and act as anti- or pro-apoptotic regulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activities. The protein encoded by this gene contains a Bcl-2 homology domain 3 (BH3). It has been shown to interact with other members of the BCL-2 protein family and to act as an apoptotic activator. The expression of this gene can be induced by nerve growth factor (NGF), as well as by the forkhead transcription factor FKHR-L1, which suggests a role of this gene in neuronal and lymphocyte apoptosis. Transgenic studies of the mouse counterpart suggested that this gene functions as an essential initiator of apoptosis in thymocyte-negative selection. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2013]	BCL2L11 (BCL2-Like 11 (Apoptosis Facilitator)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BCL2L11 include hematologic cancer and burkitt lymphoma. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include protein heterodimerization activity and microtubule binding.	Induces apoptosis and anoikis. Isoform BimL is more potent than isoform BimEL. Isoform Bim-alpha1, isoform Bim-alpha2 and isoform Bim-alpha3 induce apoptosis, although less potent than isoform BimEL, isoform BimL and isoform BimS. Isoform Bim-gamma induces apoptosis. Isoform Bim-alpha3 induces apoptosis possibly through a caspase-mediated pathway. Isoform BimAC and isoform BimABC lack the ability to induce apoptosis.	same
BCL2L2	This gene encodes a member of the BCL-2 protein family. The proteins of this family form hetero- or homodimers and act as anti- and pro-apoptotic regulators. Expression of this gene in cells has been shown to contribute to reduced cell apoptosis under cytotoxic conditions. Studies of the related gene in mice indicated a role in the survival of NGF- and BDNF-dependent neurons. Mutation and knockout studies of the mouse gene demonstrated an essential role in adult spermatogenesis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Read-through transcription also exists between this gene and the neighboring downstream PABPN1 (poly(A) binding protein, nuclear 1) gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]	BCL2L2 (BCL2-Like 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BCL2L2 include severe acute respiratory syndrome. Among its related pathways are MicroRNAs in cancer and Direct p53 effectors. An important paralog of this gene is BAK1.	Promotes cell survival. Blocks dexamethasone-induced apoptosis. Mediates survival of postmitotic Sertoli cells by suppressing death-promoting activity of BAX.	same
BCYRN1	This gene, which encodes a neural small non-messenger RNA, is a member of the family of interspersed repetitive DNA, and its product represents an example of a primate tissue-specific RNA polymerase III transcript. The RNA sequence is divided into three domains: a 5' portion homologous to the Alu Lm, a central adenosine-rich region, and the terminal 43-nt nonrepetitive domain. It is believed that this gene was retropositionally generated and recruited into a function regulating dendritic protein biosynthesis. At least two pseudogenes of this gene have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BCYRN1 (Brain Cytoplasmic RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	same
BCR	A reciprocal translocation between chromosomes 22 and 9 produces the Philadelphia chromosome, which is often found in patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia. The chromosome 22 breakpoint for this translocation is located within the BCR gene. The translocation produces a fusion protein which is encoded by sequence from both BCR and ABL, the gene at the chromosome 9 breakpoint. Although the BCR-ABL fusion protein has been extensively studied, the function of the normal BCR gene product is not clear. The protein has serine/threonine kinase activity and is a GTPase-activating protein for p21rac. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BCR (Breakpoint Cluster Region) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BCR include leukemia, chronic myeloid and leukemia, acute lymphoblastic. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by FGFR1 mutants. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and enzyme binding. An important paralog of this gene is ABR.	GTPase-activating protein for RAC1 and CDC42. Promotes the exchange of RAC or CDC42-bound GDP by GTP, thereby activating them. Displays serine/threonine kinase activity.	same
BCS1L	This gene encodes a homolog of the S. cerevisiae bcs1 protein which is involved in the assembly of complex III of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. The encoded protein does not contain a mitochondrial targeting sequence but experimental studies confirm that it is imported into mitochondria. Mutations in this gene are associated with mitochondrial complex III deficiency and the GRACILE syndrome. Five alternatively spliced transcripts encoding the same protein have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]	BCS1L (BC1 (Ubiquinol-Cytochrome C Reductase) Synthesis-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BCS1L include mitochondrial complex iii deficiency, nuclear type 1 and bjornstad syndrome. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Mitochondrial Protein Import. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleoside-triphosphatase activity.	Chaperone necessary for the assembly of mitochondrial respiratory chain complex III. Plays an important role in the maintenance of mitochondrial tubular networks, respiratory chain assembly and formation of the LETM1 complex.	same
BDH2	empty	BDH2 (3-Hydroxybutyrate Dehydrogenase, Type 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Synthesis and Degradation of Ketone Bodies. GO annotations related to this gene include NAD binding and 3-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DECR2.	Dehydrogenase that mediates the formation of 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,5-DHBA), a siderophore that shares structural similarities with bacterial enterobactin and associates with LCN2, thereby playing a key role in iron homeostasis and transport. Also acts as a 3-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase (By similarity).	same
BDNF	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the nerve growth factor family. It is induced by cortical neurons, and is necessary for survival of striatal neurons in the brain. Expression of this gene is reduced in both Alzheimer's and Huntington disease patients. This gene may play a role in the regulation of stress response and in the biology of mood disorders. Multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]	BDNF (Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BDNF include bulimia nervosa, age of onset of weight loss in and anorexia nervosa. Among its related pathways are MAPK signaling pathway and NF-KappaB Family Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include growth factor activity and neurotrophin TRKB receptor binding. An important paralog of this gene is NTF3.	During development, promotes the survival and differentiation of selected neuronal populations of the peripheral and central nervous systems. Participates in axonal growth, pathfinding and in the modulation of dendritic growth and morphology. Major regulator of synaptic transmission and plasticity at adult synapses in many regions of the CNS. The versatility of BDNF is emphasized by its contribution to a range of adaptive neuronal responses including long-term potentiation (LTP), long-term depression (LTD), certain forms of short-term synaptic plasticity, as well as homeostatic regulation of intrinsic neuronal excitability.	same
BDP1	The product of this gene is a subunit of the TFIIIB transcription initiation complex, which recruits RNA polymerase III to target promoters in order to initiate transcription. The encoded protein localizes to concentrated aggregates in the nucleus, and is required for transcription from all three types of polymerase III promoters. It is phosphorylated by casein kinase II during mitosis, resulting in its release from chromatin and suppression of polymerase III transcription. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BDP1 (B Double Prime 1, Subunit Of RNA Polymerase III Transcription Initiation Factor IIIB) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and RNA Polymerase III Transcription Initiation. GO annotations related to this gene include chromatin binding.	General activator of RNA polymerase III transcription. Requires for transcription from all three types of polymerase III promoters. Requires for transcription of genes with internal promoter elements and with promoter elements upstream of the initiation site.	same
BDKRB2	This gene encodes a receptor for bradykinin. The 9 aa bradykinin peptide elicits many responses including vasodilation, edema, smooth muscle spasm and pain fiber stimulation. This receptor associates with G proteins that stimulate a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system. Alternate start codons result in two isoforms of the protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BDKRB2 (Bradykinin Receptor B2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BDKRB2 include acute mountain sickness and placenta accreta. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Regulation of actin cytoskeleton. GO annotations related to this gene include protein heterodimerization activity and phosphatidylinositol phospholipase C activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACKR3.	Receptor for bradykinin. It is associated with G proteins that activate a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system	same
BDNFOS	empty	BDNF-AS (BDNF Antisense RNA) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class. Among its related pathways are MAPK signaling pathway and NF-KappaB Family Pathway.	empty	diff
BEGAIN	empty	BEGAIN (Brain-Enriched Guanylate Kinase-Associated) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is TJAP1.	May sustain the structure of the postsynaptic density (PSD)	same
BCL9L	empty	BCL9L (B-Cell CLL/Lymphoma 9-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BCL9L include colorectal adenoma. Among its related pathways are Wnt signaling pathway (KEGG). GO annotations related to this gene include transcription coactivator activity and beta-catenin binding. An important paralog of this gene is BCL9.	Transcriptional regulator that acts as an activator. Promotes beta-catenin transcriptional activity. Plays a role in tumorigenesis. Enhances the neoplastic transforming activity of CTNNB1 (By similarity).	same
BEND2	This gene encodes a protein which has two BEN domains in the C-terminus. These domains are found in proteins which participate in protein and DNA interactions which occur during chromatin restructuring or transcription. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	BEND2 (BEN Domain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
BEAN	The protein encoded by this gene is one of several proteins that interact with NEDD4, a member of a family of ubiquitin-protein ligases. These proteins have PY motifs in common that bind to the WW domains of NEDD4. NEDD4 is developmentally regulated, and is highly expressed in embryonic tissues. Mutations in this gene (i.e., intronic insertions of >100 copies of pentanucleotide repeats including a (TGGAA)n sequence) are associated with spinocerebellar ataxia type 31. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	BEAN1 (Brain Expressed, Associated With NEDD4, 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BEAN1 include spinocerebellar ataxia 31 and ataxia.	empty	diff
BEND4	empty	BEND4 (BEN Domain Containing 4) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
BEND5	empty	BEND5 (BEN Domain Containing 5) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
BEND3	empty	BEND3 (BEN Domain Containing 3) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
BCO2	This gene encodes an enzyme which oxidizes carotenoids such as beta-carotene during the biosynthesis of vitamin A. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]	BCO2 (Beta-Carotene Oxygenase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Vitamin A and carotenoid metabolism and Chemical carcinogenesis. GO annotations related to this gene include oxidoreductase activity, acting on single donors with incorporation of molecular oxygen, incorporation of two atoms of oxygen. An important paralog of this gene is BCO1.	Asymmetrically cleaves beta-carotene at the 9,10 double bond resulting in the formation of beta-apo-10-carotenal and beta-ionone. Besides beta-carotene, lycopene is also oxidatively cleaved. The apocarotenals formed by this enzyme may be the precursors for the biosynthesis of retinoic acid or exert unknown physiological effects.	same
BEND6	empty	BEND6 (BEN Domain Containing 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Notch Signaling Pathways.	empty	same
BEST2	This gene is a member of the bestrophin gene family of anion channels. Bestrophin genes share a similar gene structure with highly conserved exon-intron boundaries, but with distinct 3' ends. Bestrophins are transmembrane proteins that contain a homologous region rich in aromatic residues, including an invariant arg-phe-pro motif. Mutation in one of the family members (bestrophin 1) is associated with vitelliform macular dystrophy. The bestrophin 2 gene is mainly expressed in the retinal pigment epithelium and colon. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BEST2 (Bestrophin 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BEST2 include vitelliform macular dystrophy 2 and bestrophinopathy. Among its related pathways are Ion channel transport and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include chloride channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is BEST1.	Forms calcium-sensitive chloride channels. Permeable to bicarbonate.	same
BEND7	empty	BEND7 (BEN Domain Containing 7) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
BET1	This gene encodes a golgi-associated membrane protein that participates in vesicular transport from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) to the Golgi complex. The encoded protein functions as a soluble N-ethylaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor and may be involved in the docking of ER-derived vesicles with the cis-Golgi membrane. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described but their full-length nature has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BET1 (Bet1 Golgi Vesicular Membrane Trafficking Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BET1 include neuronitis and vestibular neuronitis. Among its related pathways are Nicotine Pathway (Dopaminergic Neuron), Pharmacodynamics. An important paralog of this gene is BET1L.	Required for vesicular transport from the ER to the Golgi complex. Functions as a SNARE involved in the docking process of ER-derived vesicles with the cis-Golgi membrane (By similarity).	same
BET1L	empty	BET1L (Bet1 Golgi Vesicular Membrane Trafficking Protein-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BET1L include uterine fibroid. Among its related pathways are Delta508-CFTR traffic / ER-to-Golgi in CF and Nicotine Pathway (Dopaminergic Neuron), Pharmacodynamics. GO annotations related to this gene include SNAP receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is BET1.	Vesicle SNARE required for targeting and fusion of retrograde transport vesicles with the Golgi complex. Required for the integrity of the Golgi complex (By similarity).	same
BEST1	This gene encodes a member of the bestrophin gene family. This small gene family is characterized by proteins with a highly conserved N-terminus with four to six transmembrane domains. Bestrophins may form chloride ion channels or may regulate voltage-gated L-type calcium-ion channels. Bestrophins are generally believed to form calcium-activated chloride-ion channels in epithelial cells but they have also been shown to be highly permeable to bicarbonate ion transport in retinal tissue. Mutations in this gene are responsible for juvenile-onset vitelliform macular dystrophy (VMD2), also known as Best macular dystrophy, in addition to adult-onset vitelliform macular dystrophy (AVMD) and other retinopathies. Alternative splicing results in multiple variants encoding distinct isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]	BEST1 (Bestrophin 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BEST1 include bestrophinopathy, autosomal recessive and vitreoretinochoroidopathy. Among its related pathways are Ion channel transport and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include chloride channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is BEST2.	Forms calcium-sensitive chloride channels. Highly permeable to bicarbonate.	same
BEST3	BEST3 belongs to the bestrophin family of anion channels, which includes BEST1 (MIM 607854), the gene mutant in vitelliform macular dystrophy (VMD; MIM 153700), and 2 other BEST1-like genes, BEST2 (MIM 607335) and BEST4 (MIM 607336). Bestrophins are transmembrane (TM) proteins that share a homology region containing a high content of aromatic residues, including an invariant arg-phe-pro (RFP) motif. The bestrophin genes share a conserved gene structure, with almost identical sizes of the 8 RFP-TM domain-encoding exons and highly conserved exon-intron boundaries. Each of the 4 bestrophin genes has a unique 3-prime end of variable length (Stohr et al., 2002 [PubMed 12032738]; Tsunenari et al., 2003 [PubMed 12907679]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	BEST3 (Bestrophin 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BEST3 include vitelliform macular dystrophy 2 and vitelliform macular dystrophy. Among its related pathways are Ion channel transport and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include chloride channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is BEST2.	Forms calcium-sensitive chloride channels. Permeable to bicarbonate.	same
BEX1	empty	BEX1 (Brain Expressed, X-Linked 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BEX1 include ischemic optic neuropathy. Among its related pathways are p75(NTR)-mediated signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA polymerase II activating transcription factor binding. An important paralog of this gene is NGFRAP1.	Signaling adapter molecule involved in p75NTR/NGFR signaling. Plays a role in cell cycle progression and neuronal differentiation. Inhibits neuronal differentiation in response to nerve growth factor (NGF). May act as a link between the cell cycle and neurotrophic factor signaling, possibly by functioning as an upstream modulator of receptor signaling, coordinating biological responses to external signals with internal cellular states (By similarity).	same
BET3L	empty	TRAPPC3L (Trafficking Protein Particle Complex 3-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is TRAPPC3.	May play a role in vesicular transport from endoplasmic reticulum to Golgi.	diff
BDKRB1	Bradykinin, a 9 aa peptide, is generated in pathophysiologic conditions such as inflammation, trauma, burns, shock, and allergy. Two types of G-protein coupled receptors have been found which bind bradykinin and mediate responses to these pathophysiologic conditions. The protein encoded by this gene is one of these receptors and is synthesized de novo following tissue injury. Receptor binding leads to an increase in the cytosolic calcium ion concentration, ultimately resulting in chronic and acute inflammatory responses. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]	BDKRB1 (Bradykinin Receptor B1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BDKRB1 include burns and erysipelas. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Regulation of actin cytoskeleton. GO annotations related to this gene include peptide binding and bradykinin receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is ACKR3.	This is a receptor for bradykinin. Could be a factor in chronic pain and inflammation	same
BEX2	This gene belongs to the brain expressed X-linked gene family. The encoded protein interacts with the transcription factor LIM domain only 2 in a DNA-binding complex that recognizes the E-box element and promotes transcription. This gene has been found to be a tumor suppressor that is silenced in human glioma. In breast cancer cells, this gene product modulates apoptosis in response to estrogen and tamoxifen, and enhances the anti-proliferative effect of tamoxifen. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]	BEX2 (Brain Expressed X-Linked 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BEX2 include breast cancer. Among its related pathways are p75(NTR)-mediated signaling. An important paralog of this gene is NGFRAP1.	Regulator of mitochondrial apoptosis and G1 cell cycle in breast cancer. Protects the breast cancer cells against mitochondrial apoptosis and this effect is mediated through the modulation of BCL2 protein family, which involves the positive regulation of anti-apoptotic member BCL2 and the negative regulation of pro-apoptotic members BAD, BAK1 and PUMA. Required for the normal cell cycle progression during G1 in breast cancer cells through the regulation of CCND1 and CDKN1A. Regulates the level of PP2A regulatory subunit B and PP2A phosphatase activity.	same
BFAR	empty	BFAR (Bifunctional Apoptosis Regulator) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include structural molecule activity.	Apoptosis regulator. Has anti-apoptotic activity, both for apoptosis triggered via death-receptors and via mitochondrial factors.	same
BDH1	This gene encodes a member of the short-chain dehydrogenase/reductase gene family. The encoded protein forms a homotetrameric lipid-requiring enzyme of the mitochondrial membrane and has a specific requirement for phosphatidylcholine for optimal enzymatic activity. The encoded protein catalyzes the interconversion of acetoacetate and (R)-3-hydroxybutyrate, the two major ketone bodies produced during fatty acid catabolism. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BDH1 (3-Hydroxybutyrate Dehydrogenase, Type 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BDH1 include bile duct adenoma. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and 3-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase activity. An important paralog of this gene is HSD11B2.	empty	same
BEX5	empty	BEX5 (Brain Expressed, X-Linked 5) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is NGFRAP1.	empty	same
BEYLA	empty	LINC00293 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 293) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
BFSP1	This gene encodes a lens-specific intermediate filament-like protein named filensin. The encoded protein is expressed in lens fiber cells after differentiation has begun. This protein functions as a component of the beaded filament which is a cytoskeletal structure found in lens fiber cells. Mutations in this gene are the cause of autosomal recessive cortical juvenile-onset cataract. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]	BFSP1 (Beaded Filament Structural Protein 1, Filensin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BFSP1 include cataract 33 and autosomal recessive childhood-onset cortical cataract. GO annotations related to this gene include structural constituent of cytoskeleton and structural constituent of eye lens.	empty	same
BEX4	This gene is a member of the brain expressed X-linked gene family. The proteins encoded by some of the other members of this family act as transcription elongation factors which allow RNA polymerase II to escape pausing during elongation. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	BEX4 (Brain Expressed, X-Linked 4) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is NGFRAP1.	empty	same
BGLAP	empty	BGLAP (Bone Gamma-Carboxyglutamate (Gla) Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BGLAP include kwashiorkor and chondroblastic osteosarcoma. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and hydroxyapatite binding.	Constitutes 1-2% of the total bone protein. It binds strongly to apatite and calcium	same
BHLHE22	BHLHE22 belongs to the basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) family of transcription factors that regulate cell fate determination, proliferation, and differentiation. These proteins function as dimers and bind to an E-box DNA sequence (CANNTG). BHLHE22 is expressed exclusively in the central nervous system and retina (Xu et al., 2002 [PubMed 12213201]).[supplied by OMIM, Jul 2010]	BHLHE22 (Basic Helix-Loop-Helix Family, Member E22) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and sequence-specific DNA binding RNA polymerase II transcription factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is BHLHE23.	Inhibits DNA binding of TCF3/E47 homodimers and TCF3 (E47)/NEUROD1 heterodimers and acts as a strong repressor of Neurod1 and Myod-responsive genes, probably by heterodimerization with class a basic helix-loop-helix factors. Despite the presence of an intact basic domain, does not bind to DNA (By similarity).	same
BHLHE23	This gene encodes a member of the basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor family. Members of this family contain two highly conserved and functionally distinct domains: the basic domain targets sequence-specific DNA binding, while the helix-loop-helix domain facilitates protein interaction. Studies of a related gene in mouse suggest that the encoded protein may function as a transcriptional repressor in the pancreas and brain, and that it is required for normal retinal function. [provided by RefSeq, May 2013]	BHLHE23 (Basic Helix-Loop-Helix Family, Member E23) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein dimerization activity. An important paralog of this gene is OLIG1.	May function as transcriptional repressor. May modulate the expression of genes required for the differentiation and/or maintenance of pancreatic and neuronal cell types. May be important for rod bipolar cell maturation (By similarity).	same
BEST4	This gene is a member of the bestrophin gene family of anion channels. Bestrophin genes share a similar gene structure with highly conserved exon-intron boundaries, but with distinct 3' ends. Bestrophins are transmembrane proteins that contain a homologous region rich in aromatic residues, including an invariant arg-phe-pro motif. Mutation in one of the family members (bestrophin 1) is associated with vitelliform macular dystrophy. The bestrophin 4 gene is predominantly expressed in the colon. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BEST4 (Bestrophin 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BEST4 include vitelliform macular dystrophy 2 and vitelliform macular dystrophy. Among its related pathways are Ion channel transport and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include chloride channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is BEST2.	Forms calcium-sensitive chloride channels. Permeable to bicarbonate.	same
BHLHE41	This gene encodes a basic helix-loop-helix protein expressed in various tissues. The encoded protein can interact with ARNTL or compete for E-box binding sites in the promoter of PER1 and repress CLOCK/ARNTL's transactivation of PER1. This gene is believed to be involved in the control of circadian rhythm and cell differentiation. Defects in this gene are associated with the short sleep phenotype. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2014]	BHLHE41 (Basic Helix-Loop-Helix Family, Member E41) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BHLHE41 include bipolar i disorder and mood disorder. Among its related pathways are HIF-1-alpha transcription factor network and Circadian Clock. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and protein heterodimerization activity. An important paralog of this gene is BHLHE40.	Transcriptional repressor involved in the regulation of the circadian rhythm by negatively regulating the activity of the clock genes and clock-controlled genes. Acts as the negative limb of a novel autoregulatory feedback loop (DEC loop) which differs from the one formed by the PER and CRY transcriptional repressors (PER/CRY loop). Both these loops are interlocked as it represses the expression of PER1 and in turn is repressed by PER1/2 and CRY1/2. Represses the activity of the circadian transcriptional activator: CLOCK-ARNTL/BMAL1 heterodimer by competing for the binding to E-box elements (5-CACGTG-3) found within the promoters of its target genes. Negatively regulates its own expression and the expression of DBP and BHLHE41/DEC2. Acts as a corepressor of RXR and the RXR-LXR heterodimers and represses the ligand-induced RXRA/B/G, NR1H3/LXRA, NR1H4 and VDR transactivation activity.	same
BICD2	This gene is one of two human homologs of Drosophila bicaudal-D and a member of the Bicoid family. It has been implicated in dynein-mediated, minus end-directed motility along microtubules. It has also been reported to be a phosphorylation target of NIMA related kinase 8. Two alternative splice variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BICD2 (Bicaudal D Homolog 2 (Drosophila)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BICD2 include spinal muscular atrophy, lower extremity-predominant, 2, ad and autosomal dominant childhood-onset proximal spinal muscular atrophy with contractures. GO annotations related to this gene include Rab GTPase binding. An important paralog of this gene is BICD1.	May play a role in the dynein-dynactin interactions on the surface of membranous organelles, by associating with these complexes. Regulates coat complex coatomer protein I (COPI)-independent Golgi-endoplasmic reticulum transport by recruiting the dynein-dynactin motor complex (By similarity).	same
BICD1	This gene is one of two human homologs of Drosophila bicaudal-D. It has been implicated in COPI-independent membrane transport from the Golgi apparatus to the endoplasmic reticulum. Two alternative splice variants have been described. Other alternative splice variants that encode different protein isoforms have been described but their full-length nature has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BICD1 (Bicaudal D Homolog 1 (Drosophila)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BICD1 include lissencephaly. GO annotations related to this gene include structural constituent of cytoskeleton and cytoskeletal adaptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is BICD2.	Regulates coat complex coatomer protein I (COPI)-independent Golgi-endoplasmic reticulum transport by recruiting the dynein-dynactin motor complex	same
BID	This gene encodes a death agonist that heterodimerizes with either agonist BAX or antagonist BCL2. The encoded protein is a member of the BCL-2 family of cell death regulators. It is a mediator of mitochondrial damage induced by caspase-8 (CASP8); CASP8 cleaves this encoded protein, and the COOH-terminal part translocates to mitochondria where it triggers cytochrome c release. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found, but the full-length nature of some variants has not been defined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BID (BH3 Interacting Domain Death Agonist) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BID include cat eye syndrome and talipes equinovarus. Among its related pathways are Pathways in cancer and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin protein ligase binding and death receptor binding.	The major proteolytic product p15 BID allows the release of cytochrome c (By similarity). Isoform 1, isoform 2 and isoform 4 induce ICE-like proteases and apoptosis. Isoform 3 does not induce apoptosis. Counters the protective effect of Bcl-2.	same
BIK	The protein encoded by this gene shares a critical BH3 domain with other death-promoting proteins, such as BID, BAK, BAD and BAX, that is required for its pro-apoptotic activity, and for interaction with anti-apoptotic members of the BCL2 family, and viral survival-promoting proteins. Since the activity of this protein is suppressed in the presence of survival-promoting proteins, it is suggested as a likely target for anti-apoptotic proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]	BIK (BCL2-Interacting Killer (Apoptosis-Inducing)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Apoptotic Pathways in Synovial Fibroblasts and Apoptosis (WikiPathways). GO annotations related to this gene include protein heterodimerization activity and BH domain binding.	Accelerates programmed cell death. Association to the apoptosis repressors Bcl-X(L), BHRF1, Bcl-2 or its adenovirus homolog E1B 19k protein suppresses this death-promoting activity. Does not interact with BAX.	same
BIN1	This gene encodes several isoforms of a nucleocytoplasmic adaptor protein, one of which was initially identified as a MYC-interacting protein with features of a tumor suppressor. Isoforms that are expressed in the central nervous system may be involved in synaptic vesicle endocytosis and may interact with dynamin, synaptojanin, endophilin, and clathrin. Isoforms that are expressed in muscle and ubiquitously expressed isoforms localize to the cytoplasm and nucleus and activate a caspase-independent apoptotic process. Studies in mouse suggest that this gene plays an important role in cardiac muscle development. Alternate splicing of the gene results in ten transcript variants encoding different isoforms. Aberrant splice variants expressed in tumor cell lines have also been described. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]	BIN1 (Bridging Integrator 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BIN1 include myopathy, centronuclear, autosomal recessive and intracranial abscess. Among its related pathways are Arf6 trafficking events and Delta508-CFTR traffic / ER-to-Golgi in CF. GO annotations related to this gene include protein heterodimerization activity and GTPase binding. An important paralog of this gene is AMPH.	May be involved in regulation of synaptic vesicle endocytosis. May act as a tumor suppressor and inhibits malignant cell transformation	same
BICC1	This gene encodes an RNA-binding protein that is active in regulating gene expression by modulating protein translation during embryonic development. Mouse studies identified the corresponding protein to be under strict control during cell differentiation and to be a maternally provided gene product. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2009]	BICC1 (BicC Family RNA Binding Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BICC1 include renal dysplasia, cystic and renal dysplasia. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is HDLBP.	Putative RNA-binding protein. Acts as a negative regulator of Wnt signaling. May be involved in regulating gene expression during embryonic development.	same
BIN2	empty	BIN2 (Bridging Integrator 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BIN2 include epididymo-orchitis and orchitis. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is BIN1.	Promotes cell motility and migration, probably via its interaction with the cell membrane and with podosome proteins that mediate interaction with the cytoskeleton. Modulates membrane curvature and mediates membrane tubulation. Plays a role in podosome formation. Inhibits phagocytosis.	same
BECN1	Beclin-1 participates in the regulation of autophagy and has an important role in development, tumorigenesis, and neurodegeneration (Zhong et al., 2009 [PubMed 19270693]).[supplied by OMIM, Jul 2010]	BECN1 (Beclin 1, Autophagy Related) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BECN1 include hepatocellular carcinoma. Among its related pathways are Akt Signaling Pathway and Apoptosis and Autophagy.	Plays a central role in autophagy (PubMed:23184933). Required for the abcission step in cytokinesis (PubMed:20208530). Protects against infection by a neurovirulent strain of Sindbis virus (PubMed:9765397). May play a role in antiviral host defense.	same
BFSP2	More than 99% of the vertebrate ocular lens is comprised of terminally differentiated lens fiber cells. Two lens-specific intermediate filament-like proteins, the protein product of this gene (phakinin), and filensin, are expressed only after fiber cell differentiation has begun. Both proteins are found in a structurally unique cytoskeletal element that is referred to as the beaded filament (BF). Mutations in this gene have been associated with juvenile-onset, progressive cataracts and Dowling-Meara epidermolysis bullosa simplex. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]	BFSP2 (Beaded Filament Structural Protein 2, Phakinin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BFSP2 include cataract 12, multiple types and cataract, autosomal dominant, multiple types 1. GO annotations related to this gene include structural constituent of cytoskeleton and structural constituent of eye lens. An important paralog of this gene is KRT23.	Involved in stabilization of lens fiber cell cytoskeleton.	same
BHLHA15	empty	BHLHA15 (Basic Helix-Loop-Helix Family, Member A15) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Regulation of beta-cell development. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity. An important paralog of this gene is NEUROG1.	Plays a role in controlling the transcriptional activity of MYOD1, ensuring that expanding myoblast populations remain undifferentiated. Repression may occur through muscle-specific E-box occupancy by homodimers. May also negatively regulate bHLH-mediated transcription through an N-terminal repressor domain. Serves as a key regulator of acinar cell function, stability, and identity. Also required for normal organelle localization in exocrine cells and for mitochondrial calcium ion transport. May function as a unique regulator of gene expression in several different embryonic and postnatal cell lineages. Binds to the E-box consensus sequence 5-CANNTG-3 (By similarity).	same
BGN	The protein encoded by this gene is a small cellular or pericellular matrix proteoglycan that is closely related in structure to two other small proteoglycans, decorin and fibromodulin. The encoded protein and decorin are thought to be the result of a gene duplication. Decorin contains one attached glycosaminoglycan chain, while this protein probably contains two chains. For this reason, this protein is called biglycan. This protein plays a role in assembly of collagen fibrils and muscle regeneration. It interacts with several proteins involved in muscular dystrophy, including alpha-dystroglycan, alpha- and gamma-sarcoglycan and collagen VI, and it is critical for the assembly of the dystrophin-associated protein complex. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]	BGN (Biglycan) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BGN include exposure keratitis. Among its related pathways are Disease and Degradation of the extracellular matrix. GO annotations related to this gene include extracellular matrix structural constituent and extracellular matrix binding. An important paralog of this gene is ECM2.	May be involved in collagen fiber assembly.	same
BIRC3	This gene encodes a member of the IAP family of proteins that inhibit apoptosis by binding to tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factors TRAF1 and TRAF2, probably by interfering with activation of ICE-like proteases. The encoded protein inhibits apoptosis induced by serum deprivation but does not affect apoptosis resulting from exposure to menadione, a potent inducer of free radicals. It contains 3 baculovirus IAP repeats and a ring finger domain. Transcript variants encoding the same isoform have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	BIRC3 (Baculoviral IAP Repeat Containing 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BIRC3 include malt lymphoma and chronic neutrophilic leukemia. Among its related pathways are Pathways in cancer and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin-protein transferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is XIAP.	Multi-functional protein which regulates not only caspases and apoptosis, but also modulates inflammatory signaling and immunity, mitogenic kinase signaling and cell proliferation, as well as cell invasion and metastasis. Acts as an E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase regulating NF-kappa-B signaling and regulates both canonical and non-canonical NF-kappa-B signaling by acting in opposite directions: acts as a positive regulator of the canonical pathway and suppresses constitutive activation of non-canonical NF-kappa-B signaling. The target proteins for its E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase activity include: RIPK1, RIPK2, RIPK3, RIPK4, CASP3, CASP7, CASP8, IKBKE, TRAF1, and BCL10. Acts as an important regulator of innate immune signaling via regulation of Toll-like receptors (TLRs), Nodlike receptors (NLRs) and RIG-I like receptors (RLRs), collectively referred to as pattern recognition receptors (PRRs). Protects cells from spontaneous formation of the ripoptosome, a large multi-protein complex that has the capability to kill cancer cells in a caspase-dependent and caspase-independent manner. Suppresses ripoptosome formation by ubiquitinating RIPK1 and CASP8.	same
BIRC2	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of a family of proteins that inhibits apoptosis by binding to tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factors TRAF1 and TRAF2, probably by interfering with activation of ICE-like proteases. This encoded protein inhibits apoptosis induced by serum deprivation and menadione, a potent inducer of free radicals. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]	BIRC2 (Baculoviral IAP Repeat Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BIRC2 include malt lymphoma. Among its related pathways are Pathways in cancer and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin-protein transferase activity and protein N-terminus binding. An important paralog of this gene is XIAP.	Multi-functional protein which regulates not only caspases and apoptosis, but also modulates inflammatory signaling and immunity, mitogenic kinase signaling, and cell proliferation, as well as cell invasion and metastasis. Acts as an E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase regulating NF-kappa-B signaling and regulates both canonical and non-canonical NF-kappa-B signaling by acting in opposite directions: acts as a positive regulator of the canonical pathway and suppresses constitutive activation of non-canonical NF-kappa-B signaling. The target proteins for its E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase activity include: RIPK1, RIPK2, RIPK3, RIPK4, CASP3, CASP7, CASP8, TRAF2, DIABLO/SMAC, MAP3K14/NIK, MAP3K5/ASK1, IKBKG/NEMO, IKBKE and MXD1/MAD1. Can also function as an E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase of the NEDD8 conjugation pathway, targeting effector caspases for neddylation and inactivation. Acts as an important regulator of innate immune signaling via regulation of Toll-like receptors (TLRs), Nodlike receptors (NLRs) and RIG-I like receptors (RLRs), collectively referred to as pattern recognition receptors (PRRs). Protects cells from spontaneous formation of the ripoptosome, a large multi-protein complex that has the capability to kill cancer cells in a caspase-dependent and caspase-independent manner. Suppresses ripoptosome formation by ubiquitinating RIPK1 and CASP8. Can stimulate the transcriptional activity of E2F1. Plays a role in the modulation of the cell cycle.	same
BIRC7	This gene encodes a member of the inhibitor of apoptosis protein (IAP) family, and contains a single copy of a baculovirus IAP repeat (BIR) as well as a RING-type zinc finger domain. The BIR domain is essential for inhibitory activity and interacts with caspases, while the RING finger domain sometimes enhances antiapoptotic activity but does not inhibit apoptosis alone. Elevated levels of the encoded protein may be associated with cancer progression and play a role in chemotherapy sensitivity. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]	BIRC7 (Baculoviral IAP Repeat Containing 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BIRC7 include malignant pleural mesothelioma and melanoma. Among its related pathways are Pathways in cancer and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin-protein transferase activity and cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is XIAP.	Apoptotic regulator capable of exerting proapoptotic and anti-apoptotic activities and plays crucial roles in apoptosis, cell proliferation, and cell cycle control. Its anti-apoptotic activity is mediated through the inhibition of CASP3, CASP7 and CASP9, as well as by its E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase activity. As it is a weak caspase inhibitor, its anti-apoptotic activity is thought to be due to its ability to ubiquitinate DIABLO/SMAC targeting it for degradation thereby promoting cell survival. May contribute to caspase inhibition, by blocking the ability of DIABLO/SMAC to disrupt XIAP/BIRC4-caspase interactions. Protects against apoptosis induced by TNF or by chemical agents such as adriamycin, etoposide or staurosporine. Suppression of apoptosis is mediated by activation of MAPK8/JNK1, and possibly also of MAPK9/JNK2. This activation depends on TAB1 and NR2C2/TAK1. In vitro, inhibits CASP3 and proteolytic activation of pro-CASP9. Isoform 1 blocks staurosporine-induced apoptosis. Isoform 2 blocks etoposide-induced apoptosis. Isoform 2 protects against natural killer (NK) cell killing whereas isoform 1 augments killing.	same
BIRC6	This gene encodes a protein with a BIR (baculoviral inhibition of apoptosis protein repeat) domain and a UBCc (ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2, catalytic) domain. This protein inhibits apoptosis by facilitating the degradation of apoptotic proteins by ubiquitination. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BIRC6 (Baculoviral IAP Repeat Containing 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Apoptosis Signaling Pathways. GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin-protein transferase activity and cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is UBE2O.	Anti-apoptotic protein which can regulate cell death by controlling caspases and by acting as an E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase. Has an unusual ubiquitin conjugation system in that it could combine in a single polypeptide, ubiquitin conjugating (E2) with ubiquitin ligase (E3) activity, forming a chimeric E2/E3 ubiquitin ligase. Its tragets include CASP9 and DIABLO/SMAC. Acts as an inhibitor of CASP3, CASP7 and CASP9. Important regulator for the final stages of cytokinesis. Crucial for normal vesicle targeting to the site of abscission, but also for the integrity of the midbody and the midbody ring, and its striking ubiquitin modification.	same
BHLHE40	This gene encodes a basic helix-loop-helix protein expressed in various tissues. The encoded protein can interact with ARNTL or compete for E-box binding sites in the promoter of PER1 and repress CLOCK/ARNTL's transactivation of PER1. This gene is believed to be involved in the control of circadian rhythm and cell differentiation. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2014]	BHLHE40 (Basic Helix-Loop-Helix Family, Member E40) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Heart Development and HIF-2-alpha transcription factor network. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and protein heterodimerization activity. An important paralog of this gene is BHLHE41.	Transcriptional repressor involved in the regulation of the circadian rhythm by negatively regulating the activity of the clock genes and clock-controlled genes. Acts as the negative limb of a novel autoregulatory feedback loop (DEC loop) which differs from the one formed by the PER and CRY transcriptional repressors (PER/CRY loop). Both these loops are interlocked as it represses the expression of PER1/2 and in turn is repressed by PER1/2 and CRY1/2. Represses the activity of the circadian transcriptional activator: CLOCK-ARNTL/BMAL1 ARNTL2/BMAL2 heterodimer by competing for the binding to E-box elements (5-CACGTG-3) found within the promoters of its target genes. Negatively regulates its own expression and the expression of DBP and BHLHE41/DEC2. Acts as a corepressor of RXR and the RXR-LXR heterodimers and represses the ligand-induced RXRA and NR1H3/LXRA transactivation activity. May be involved in the regulation of chondrocyte differentiation via the cAMP pathway.	same
BLCAP	This gene encodes a tumor suppressor protein that reduces cell growth by stimulating apoptosis. The first intron of this gene contains the neuronatin gene, which is imprinted and only expressed from the paternal allele. This gene is imprinted in brain where it is differentially expressed from different promoters. Transcription from the upstream promoter occurs preferentially on the maternal allele, and transcripts are preferentially expressed from the downstream promoter on the paternal allele. Alternative promoters and alternative splicing result in multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]	BLCAP (Bladder Cancer Associated Protein) is a Protein Coding gene.	May regulate cell proliferation and coordinate apoptosis and cell cycle progression via a novel mechanism independent of both p53/TP53 and NF-kappa-B.	same
BIN3	The product of this gene is a member of the BAR domain protein family. The encoded protein is comprised solely of a BAR domain which is predicted to form coiled-coil structures and proposed to mediate dimerization, sense and induce membrane curvature, and bind small GTPases. BAR domain proteins have been implicated in endocytosis, intracellular transport, and a diverse set of other processes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BIN3 (Bridging Integrator 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BIN3 include ornithosis. GO annotations related to this gene include cytoskeletal adaptor activity.	Involved in cytokinesis and septation where it has a role in the localization of F-actin	same
BIRC5	This gene is a member of the inhibitor of apoptosis (IAP) gene family, which encode negative regulatory proteins that prevent apoptotic cell death. IAP family members usually contain multiple baculovirus IAP repeat (BIR) domains, but this gene encodes proteins with only a single BIR domain. The encoded proteins also lack a C-terminus RING finger domain. Gene expression is high during fetal development and in most tumors, yet low in adult tissues. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]	BIRC5 (Baculoviral IAP Repeat Containing 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BIRC5 include serous cystadenocarcinoma and ovarian serous cystadenocarcinoma. Among its related pathways are Pathways in cancer and GPCR Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and protein heterodimerization activity.	Multitasking protein that has dual roles in promoting cell proliferation and preventing apoptosis. Component of a chromosome passage protein complex (CPC) which is essential for chromosome alignment and segregation during mitosis and cytokinesis. Acts as an important regulator of the localization of this complex; directs CPC movement to different locations from the inner centromere during prometaphase to midbody during cytokinesis and participates in the organization of the center spindle by associating with polymerized microtubules. The complex with RAN plays a role in mitotic spindle formation by serving as a physical scaffold to help deliver the RAN effector molecule TPX2 to microtubules. May counteract a default induction of apoptosis in G2/M phase. The acetylated form represses STAT3 transactivation of target gene promoters. May play a role in neoplasia. Inhibitor of CASP3 and CASP7. Isoform 2 and isoform 3 do not appear to play vital roles in mitosis. Isoform 3 shows a marked reduction in its anti-apoptotic effects when compared with the displayed wild-type isoform.	same
BIRC8	empty	BIRC8 (Baculoviral IAP Repeat Containing 8) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Pathways in cancer and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. GO annotations related to this gene include protease binding and scaffold protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is XIAP.	Protects against apoptosis mediated by BAX	same
BLID	This gene encodes a BH3-like motif containing protein involved in cell death. The encoded protein may induce apoptosis in a caspase-dependent manner. The protein is localized in both the cytoplasm and the mitochondrion. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	BLID (BH3-Like Motif Containing, Cell Death Inducer) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BLID include breast cancer and alzheimer disease.	Functions as a proapoptotic molecule through the caspase-dependent mitochondrial pathway of cell death.	same
BLMH	Bleomycin hydrolase (BMH) is a cytoplasmic cysteine peptidase that is highly conserved through evolution; however, the only known activity of the enzyme is metabolic inactivation of the glycopeptide bleomycin (BLM), an essential component of combination chemotherapy regimens for cancer. The protein contains the signature active site residues of the cysteine protease papain superfamily. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BLMH (Bleomycin Hydrolase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BLMH include resistance to bleomycine in the treatment of testicular cancer and mutagen sensitivity. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. GO annotations related to this gene include cysteine-type peptidase activity and aminopeptidase activity.	The normal physiological role of BLM hydrolase is unknown, but it catalyzes the inactivation of the antitumor drug BLM (a glycopeptide) by hydrolyzing the carboxamide bond of its B-aminoalaninamide moiety thus protecting normal and malignant cells from BLM toxicity.	same
BLNK	This gene encodes a cytoplasmic linker or adaptor protein that plays a critical role in B cell development. This protein bridges B cell receptor-associated kinase activation with downstream signaling pathways, thereby affecting various biological functions. The phosphorylation of five tyrosine residues is necessary for this protein to nucleate distinct signaling effectors following B cell receptor activation. Mutations in this gene cause hypoglobulinemia and absent B cells, a disease in which the pro- to pre-B-cell transition is developmentally blocked. Deficiency in this protein has also been shown in some cases of pre-B acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]	BLNK (B-Cell Linker) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BLNK include agammaglobulinemia 4 and anthrax disease. Among its related pathways are Downstream Signaling Events Of B Cell Receptor (BCR) and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. GO annotations related to this gene include SH3/SH2 adaptor activity and transmembrane receptor protein tyrosine kinase adaptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is LCP2.	Functions as a central linker protein, downstream of the B-cell receptor (BCR), bridging the SYK kinase to a multitude of signaling pathways and regulating biological outcomes of B-cell function and development. Plays a role in the activation of ERK/EPHB2, MAP kinase p38 and JNK. Modulates AP1 activation. Important for the activation of NF-kappa-B and NFAT. Plays an important role in BCR-mediated PLCG1 and PLCG2 activation and Ca(2+) mobilization and is required for trafficking of the BCR to late endosomes. However, does not seem to be required for pre-BCR-mediated activation of MAP kinase and phosphatidyl-inositol 3 (PI3) kinase signaling. May be required for the RAC1-JNK pathway. Plays a critical role in orchestrating the pro-B cell to pre-B cell transition. May play an important role in BCR-induced B-cell apoptosis.	same
BLK	This gene encodes a nonreceptor tyrosine-kinase of the src family of proto-oncogenes that are typically involved in cell proliferation and differentiation. The protein has a role in B-cell receptor signaling and B-cell development. The protein also stimulates insulin synthesis and secretion in response to glucose and enhances the expression of several pancreatic beta-cell transcription factors. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]	BLK (BLK Proto-Oncogene, Src Family Tyrosine Kinase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BLK include maturity-onset diabetes of the young, type 11 and maturity-onset diabetes of the young type11. Among its related pathways are Downstream Signaling Events Of B Cell Receptor (BCR) and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. GO annotations related to this gene include protein tyrosine kinase activity and non-membrane spanning protein tyrosine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ABL2.	Non-receptor tyrosine kinase involved in B-lymphocyte development, differentiation and signaling. B-cell receptor (BCR) signaling requires a tight regulation of several protein tyrosine kinases and phosphatases, and associated coreceptors. Binding of antigen to the B-cell antigen receptor (BCR) triggers signaling that ultimately leads to B-cell activation. Signaling through BLK plays an important role in transmitting signals through surface immunoglobulins and supports the pro-B to pre-B transition, as well as the signaling for growth arrest and apoptosis downstream of B-cell receptor. Specifically binds and phosphorylates CD79A at Tyr-188and Tyr-199, as well as CD79B at Tyr-196 and Tyr-207. Phosphorylates also the immunoglobulin G receptors FCGR2A, FCGR2B and FCGR2C. With FYN and LYN, plays an essential role in pre-B-cell receptor (pre-BCR)-mediated NF-kappa-B activation. Contributes also to BTK activation by indirectly stimulating BTK intramolecular autophosphorylation. In pancreatic islets, acts as a modulator of beta-cells function through the up-regulation of PDX1 and NKX6-1 and consequent stimulation of insulin secretion in response to glucose.	same
BIVM	empty	BIVM (Basic, Immunoglobulin-Like Variable Motif Containing) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
BLOC1S3	This gene encodes a protein that is a component of the BLOC1 multi-subunit protein complex. This complex is necessary for the biogenesis of specialized organelles of the endosomal-lysosomal system, including platelet dense granules and melanosomes. Mutations in this gene cause Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome 8, a disease characterized by lysosomal storage defects, bleeding due to platelet storage pool deficiency, and oculocutaneous albinism. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BLOC1S3 (Biogenesis Of Lysosomal Organelles Complex-1, Subunit 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BLOC1S3 include hermansky-pudlak syndrome 8 and platelet storage pool deficiency. Among its related pathways are Clathrin derived vesicle budding and Clathrin derived vesicle budding.	Component of the BLOC-1 complex, a complex that is required for normal biogenesis of lysosome-related organelles (LRO), such as platelet dense granules and melanosomes. In concert with the AP-3 complex, the BLOC-1 complex is required to target membrane protein cargos into vesicles assembled at cell bodies for delivery into neurites and nerve terminals. The BLOC-1 complex, in association with SNARE proteins, is also proposed to be involved in neurite extension. Plays a role in intracellular vesicle trafficking.	same
BLVRB	The final step in heme metabolism in mammals is catalyzed by the cytosolic biliverdin reductase enzymes A and B (EC 1.3.1.24).[supplied by OMIM, Jul 2009]	BLVRB (Biliverdin Reductase B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BLVRB include cauda equina syndrome and impotence. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Riboflavin metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include biliverdin reductase activity and riboflavin reductase (NADPH) activity.	Broad specificity oxidoreductase that catalyzes the NADPH-dependent reduction of a variety of flavins, such as riboflavin, FAD or FMN, biliverdins, methemoglobin and PQQ (pyrroloquinoline quinone). Contributes to heme catabolism and metabolizes linear tetrapyrroles. Can also reduce the complexed Fe(3+) iron to Fe(2+) in the presence of FMN and NADPH. In the liver, converts biliverdin to bilirubin.	same
BLZF1	empty	BLZF1 (Basic Leucine Zipper Nuclear Factor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BLZF1 include lissencephaly, x-linked and alexander disease. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and ubiquitin protein ligase binding.	Required for normal Golgi structure and for protein transport from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) through the Golgi apparatus to the cell surface	same
BMF	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the BCL2 protein family. BCL2 family members form hetero- or homodimers and act as anti- or pro-apoptotic regulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activities. This protein contains a single BCL2 homology domain 3 (BH3), and has been shown to bind BCL2 proteins and function as an apoptotic activator. This protein is found to be sequestered to myosin V motors by its association with dynein light chain 2, which may be important for sensing intracellular damage and triggering apoptosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BMF (Bcl2 Modifying Factor) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are MicroRNAs in cancer and Androgen receptor signaling pathway.	May play a role in apoptosis. Isoform 1 seems to be the main initiator	same
BMI1	empty	BMI1 (BMI1 Proto-Oncogene, Polycomb Ring Finger) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BMI1 include embryonal cancer and erythroplakia. Among its related pathways are MicroRNAs in cancer and Cellular Senescence. GO annotations related to this gene include RING-like zinc finger domain binding. An important paralog of this gene is PCGF3.	Component of a Polycomb group (PcG) multiprotein PRC1-like complex, a complex class required to maintain the transcriptionally repressive state of many genes, including Hox genes, throughout development. PcG PRC1 complex acts via chromatin remodeling and modification of histones; it mediates monoubiquitination of histone H2A Lys-119, rendering chromatin heritably changed in its expressibility. In the PRC1 complex, it is required to stimulate the E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase activity of RNF2/RING2.	same
BHMT2	Homocysteine is a sulfur-containing amino acid that plays a crucial role in methylation reactions. Transfer of the methyl group from betaine to homocysteine creates methionine, which donates the methyl group to methylate DNA, proteins, lipids, and other intracellular metabolites. The protein encoded by this gene is one of two methyl transferases that can catalyze the transfer of the methyl group from betaine to homocysteine. Anomalies in homocysteine metabolism have been implicated in disorders ranging from vascular disease to neural tube birth defects such as spina bifida. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	BHMT2 (Betaine--Homocysteine S-Methyltransferase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BHMT2 include vascular disease. Among its related pathways are One carbon pool by folate and One carbon pool by folate. GO annotations related to this gene include S-adenosylmethionine-homocysteine S-methyltransferase activity and betaine-homocysteine S-methyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is BHMT.	Involved in the regulation of homocysteine metabolism. Converts homocysteine to methionine using S-methylmethionine (SMM) as a methyl donor.	same
BMP10	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TGF-beta family of growth factors. Data suggest that the similar protein in mouse plays an important role in trabeculation of the embryonic heart. In human, this protein may signal through receptor serine/threonine kinases. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BMP10 (Bone Morphogenetic Protein 10) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BMP10 include muscle hypertrophy and hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia. Among its related pathways are TGF-Beta Pathway and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include cytokine activity and hormone activity. An important paralog of this gene is BMP2.	Required for maintaining the proliferative activity of embryonic cardiomyocytes by preventing premature activation of the negative cell cycle regulator CDKN1C/p57KIP and maintaining the required expression levels of cardiogenic factors such as MEF2C and NKX2-5. Acts as a ligand for ACVRL1/ALK1, BMPR1A/ALK3 and BMPR1B/ALK6, leading to activation of SMAD1, SMAD5 and SMAD8 transcription factors. Inhibits endothelial cell migration and growth. May reduce cell migration and cell matrix adhesion in breast cancer cell lines.	same
BHMT	This gene encodes a cytosolic enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of betaine and homocysteine to dimethylglycine and methionine, respectively. Defects in this gene could lead to hyperhomocyst(e)inemia, but such a defect has not yet been observed. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BHMT (Betaine--Homocysteine S-Methyltransferase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BHMT include placental abruption and hyperhomocysteinemia. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include protein complex binding and betaine-homocysteine S-methyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is BHMT2.	Involved in the regulation of homocysteine metabolism. Converts betaine and homocysteine to dimethylglycine and methionine, respectively. This reaction is also required for the irreversible oxidation of choline	same
BMP15	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the bone morphogenetic protein family which is part of the transforming growth factor-beta superfamily. The transforming growth factor-beta superfamily includes large families of growth and differentiation factors. It is thought that this protein may be involved in oocyte maturation and follicular development as a homodimer or by forming heterodimers with a related protein, Gdf9. Defects in this gene are the cause of ovarian dysgenesis 2.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]	BMP15 (Bone Morphogenetic Protein 15) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BMP15 include ovarian dysgenesis 2 and 46,xx testicular disorder of sex development. Among its related pathways are TGF-Beta Pathway and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include cytokine activity and growth factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is NODAL.	May be involved in follicular development. Oocyte-specific growth/differentiation factor that stimulates folliculogenesis and granulosa cell (GC) growth.	same
BMP2K	This gene is the human homolog of mouse BMP-2-inducible kinase. Bone morphogenic proteins (BMPs) play a key role in skeletal development and patterning. Expression of the mouse gene is increased during BMP-2 induced differentiation and the gene product is a putative serine/threonine protein kinase containing a nuclear localization signal. Therefore, the protein encoded by this human homolog is thought to be a protein kinase with a putative regulatory role in attenuating the program of osteoblast differentiation. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BMP2K (BMP2 Inducible Kinase) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Transcriptional misregulation in cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and phosphatase regulator activity. An important paralog of this gene is AAK1.	May be involved in osteoblast differentiation	same
BMP1	This gene encodes a protein that is capable of inducing formation of cartilage in vivo. Although other bone morphogenetic proteins are members of the TGF-beta superfamily, this gene encodes a protein that is not closely related to other known growth factors. This gene is expressed as alternatively spliced variants that share an N-terminal protease domain but differ in their C-terminal region. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]	BMP1 (Bone Morphogenetic Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BMP1 include osteogenesis imperfecta, type xiii and bmp1-related osteogenesis imperfecta. Among its related pathways are TGF-Beta Pathway and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and growth factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is TLL1.	Cleaves the C-terminal propeptides of procollagen I, II and III. Induces cartilage and bone formation. May participate in dorsoventral patterning during early development by cleaving chordin (CHRD). Responsible for the proteolytic activation of lysyl oxidase LOX	same
BMP4	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the bone morphogenetic protein family which is part of the transforming growth factor-beta superfamily. The superfamily includes large families of growth and differentiation factors. Bone morphogenetic proteins were originally identified by an ability of demineralized bone extract to induce endochondral osteogenesis in vivo in an extraskeletal site. This particular family member plays an important role in the onset of endochondral bone formation in humans, and a reduction in expression has been associated with a variety of bone diseases, including the heritable disorder Fibrodysplasia Ossificans Progressiva. Alternative splicing in the 5' untranslated region of this gene has been described and three variants are described, all encoding an identical protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BMP4 (Bone Morphogenetic Protein 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BMP4 include microphthalmia, syndromic 6 and orofacial cleft 11. Among its related pathways are TGF-Beta Pathway and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include cytokine activity and heparin binding. An important paralog of this gene is BMP2.	Induces cartilage and bone formation. Also act in mesoderm induction, tooth development, limb formation and fracture repair. Acts in concert with PTHLH/PTHRP to stimulate ductal outgrowth during embryonic mammary development and to inhibit hair follicle induction (By similarity).	same
BMP3	BMP3 belongs to the transforming growth factor-beta (TGFB) superfamily. Bone morphogenic protein, also known as osteogenin, induces bone formation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BMP3 (Bone Morphogenetic Protein 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BMP3 include refractive error. Among its related pathways are TGF-Beta Pathway and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and growth factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is NODAL.	Negatively regulates bone density. Antagonizes the ability of certain osteogenic BMPs to induce osteoprogenitor differentitation and ossification.	same
BMP6	The bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) are a family of secreted signaling molecules that can induce ectopic bone growth. Many BMPs are part of the transforming growth factor-beta (TGFB) superfamily. BMPs were originally identified by an ability of demineralized bone extract to induce endochondral osteogenesis in vivo in an extraskeletal site. Based on its expression early in embryogenesis, the BMP encoded by this gene has a proposed role in early development. In addition, the fact that this BMP is closely related to BMP5 and BMP7 has lead to speculation of possible bone inductive activity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BMP6 (Bone Morphogenetic Protein 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BMP6 include bone marrow necrosis and intestinal neoplasm. Among its related pathways are TGF-Beta Pathway and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protein heterodimerization activity and growth factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is BMP2.	Induces cartilage and bone formation	same
BLM	The Bloom syndrome gene product is related to the RecQ subset of DExH box-containing DNA helicases and has both DNA-stimulated ATPase and ATP-dependent DNA helicase activities. Mutations causing Bloom syndrome delete or alter helicase motifs and may disable the 3'-5' helicase activity. The normal protein may act to suppress inappropriate recombination. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BLM (Bloom Syndrome, RecQ Helicase-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BLM include bloom syndrome and rothmund-thomson syndrome. Among its related pathways are Integrated Pancreatic Cancer Pathway and Cell Cycle / Checkpoint Control. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase activity and ATP-dependent helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is RECQL.	Participates in DNA replication and repair. Exhibits a magnesium-dependent ATP-dependent DNA-helicase activity that unwinds single- and double-stranded DNA in a 3-5 direction. Involved in 5-end resection of DNA during double-strand break (DSB) repair: unwinds DNA and recruits DNA2 which mediates the cleavage of 5-ssDNA. Negatively regulates sister chromatid exchange (SCE).	same
BMP8B	The bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) are a family of secreted signaling molecules that can induce ectopic bone growth. Many BMPs are part of the transforming growth factor-beta (TGFB) superfamily. BMPs were originally identified by an ability of demineralized bone extract to induce endochondral osteogenesis in vivo in an extraskeletal site. Based on its expression early in embryogenesis, the BMP encoded by this gene has a proposed role in early development. In addition, the fact that this BMP is closely related to BMP5 and BMP7 has led to speculation of possible bone inductive activity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BMP8B (Bone Morphogenetic Protein 8b) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BMP8B include blue color blindness and color blindness. Among its related pathways are TGF-Beta Pathway and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include cytokine activity and growth factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is BMP2.	Induces cartilage and bone formation. May be the osteoinductive factor responsible for the phenomenon of epithelial osteogenesis. Plays a role in calcium regulation and bone homeostasis (By similarity).	same
BLOC1S2	This gene encodes a protein with multiple functions. The encoded protein has been found in association with the centrosome, shown to co-localize with gamma-tubulin, and also found to be one of the proteins in the BLOC-1 complex which functions in the formation of lysosome-related organelles. A pseudogene of this gene is located on the X chromosome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]	BLOC1S2 (Biogenesis Of Lysosomal Organelles Complex-1, Subunit 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BLOC1S2 include hermansky-pudlak syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include protein C-terminus binding and gamma-tubulin binding.	Component of the BLOC-1 complex, a complex that is required for normal biogenesis of lysosome-related organelles (LRO), such as platelet dense granules and melanosomes. In concert with the AP-3 complex, the BLOC-1 complex is required to target membrane protein cargos into vesicles assembled at cell bodies for delivery into neurites and nerve terminals. The BLOC-1 complex, in association with SNARE proteins, is also proposed to be involved in neurite extension. Plays a role in intracellular vesicle trafficking. May play a role in cell proliferation.	same
BMP7	The bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) are a family of secreted signaling molecules that can induce ectopic bone growth. Many BMPs are part of the transforming growth factor-beta (TGFB) superfamily. BMPs were originally identified by an ability of demineralized bone extract to induce endochondral osteogenesis in vivo in an extraskeletal site. Based on its expression early in embryogenesis, the BMP encoded by this gene has a proposed role in early development and possible bone inductive activity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BMP7 (Bone Morphogenetic Protein 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BMP7 include spondylolisthesis and ureteral obstruction. Among its related pathways are TGF-Beta Pathway and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include cytokine activity and growth factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is BMP2.	Induces cartilage and bone formation. May be the osteoinductive factor responsible for the phenomenon of epithelial osteogenesis. Plays a role in calcium regulation and bone homeostasis	same
BMP5	This gene encodes a member of the bone morphogenetic protein family which is part of the transforming growth factor-beta superfamily. The superfamily includes large families of growth and differentiation factors. Bone morphogenetic proteins were originally identified by an ability of demineralized bone extract to induce endochondral osteogenesis in vivo in an extraskeletal site. These proteins are synthesized as prepropeptides, cleaved, and then processed into dimeric proteins. This protein may act as an important signaling molecule within the trabecular meshwork and optic nerve head, and may play a potential role in glaucoma pathogenesis. This gene is differentially regulated during the formation of various tumors. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BMP5 (Bone Morphogenetic Protein 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BMP5 include squamous cell papilloma and microtia. Among its related pathways are TGF-Beta Pathway and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include cytokine activity and BMP receptor binding. An important paralog of this gene is BMP2.	Induces cartilage and bone formation	same
BLOC1S1	BLOC1S1 is a component of the ubiquitously expressed BLOC1 multisubunit protein complex. BLOC1 is required for normal biogenesis of specialized organelles of the endosomal-lysosomal system, such as melanosomes and platelet dense granules (Starcevic and Dell'Angelica, 2004 [PubMed 15102850]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	BLOC1S1 (Biogenesis Of Lysosomal Organelles Complex-1, Subunit 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BLOC1S1 include hermansky-pudlak syndrome. Among its related pathways are Clathrin derived vesicle budding and Clathrin derived vesicle budding. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000258311.	Component of the BLOC-1 complex, a complex that is required for normal biogenesis of lysosome-related organelles (LRO), such as platelet dense granules and melanosomes. In concert with the AP-3 complex, the BLOC-1 complex is required to target membrane protein cargos into vesicles assembled at cell bodies for delivery into neurites and nerve terminals. The BLOC-1 complex, in association with SNARE proteins, is also proposed to be involved in neurite extension. May negatively regulate aerobic respiration through mitochondrial protein lysine-acetylation. May counteract the action of the deacetylase SIRT3 by acetylating and regulating proteins of the mitochondrial respiratory chain including ATP5A1 and NDUFA9.	same
BMPER	This gene encodes a secreted protein that interacts with, and inhibits bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) function. It has been shown to inhibit BMP2- and BMP4-dependent osteoblast differentiation and BMP-dependent differentiation of the chondrogenic cells. Mutations in this gene are associated with a lethal skeletal disorder, diaphanospondylodysostosis. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	BMPER (BMP Binding Endothelial Regulator) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BMPER include diaphanospondylodysostosis and spondylocostal dysostosis. An important paralog of this gene is OTOGL.	Inhibitor of bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) function, it may regulate BMP responsiveness of osteoblasts and chondrocytes.	same
BLVRA	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the biliverdin reductase family, members of which catalyze the conversion of biliverdin to bilirubin in the presence of NADPH or NADH. Mutations in this gene are associated with hyperbiliverdinemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	BLVRA (Biliverdin Reductase A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BLVRA include hyperbiliverdinemia and pneumothorax. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and IL-10 Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include biliverdin reductase activity.	Reduces the gamma-methene bridge of the open tetrapyrrole, biliverdin IX alpha, to bilirubin with the concomitant oxidation of a NADH or NADPH cofactor	same
BMPR1A	The bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) receptors are a family of transmembrane serine/threonine kinases that include the type I receptors BMPR1A and BMPR1B and the type II receptor BMPR2. These receptors are also closely related to the activin receptors, ACVR1 and ACVR2. The ligands of these receptors are members of the TGF-beta superfamily. TGF-betas and activins transduce their signals through the formation of heteromeric complexes with 2 different types of serine (threonine) kinase receptors: type I receptors of about 50-55 kD and type II receptors of about 70-80 kD. Type II receptors bind ligands in the absence of type I receptors, but they require their respective type I receptors for signaling, whereas type I receptors require their respective type II receptors for ligand binding. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BMPR1A (Bone Morphogenetic Protein Receptor, Type IA) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BMPR1A include polyposis syndrome, hereditary mixed, 2 and polyposis, juvenile intestinal. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and sequence-specific DNA binding RNA polymerase II transcription factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is TGFBR2.	On ligand binding, forms a receptor complex consisting of two type II and two type I transmembrane serine/threonine kinases. Type II receptors phosphorylate and activate type I receptors which autophosphorylate, then bind and activate SMAD transcriptional regulators. Receptor for BMP-2 and BMP-4. Positively regulates chondrocyte differentiation through GDF5 interaction (By similarity).	same
BMPR2	This gene encodes a member of the bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) receptor family of transmembrane serine/threonine kinases. The ligands of this receptor are BMPs, which are members of the TGF-beta superfamily. BMPs are involved in endochondral bone formation and embryogenesis. These proteins transduce their signals through the formation of heteromeric complexes of two different types of serine (threonine) kinase receptors: type I receptors of about 50-55 kD and type II receptors of about 70-80 kD. Type II receptors bind ligands in the absence of type I receptors, but they require their respective type I receptors for signaling, whereas type I receptors require their respective type II receptors for ligand binding. Mutations in this gene have been associated with primary pulmonary hypertension, both familial and fenfluramine-associated, and with pulmonary venoocclusive disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BMPR2 (Bone Morphogenetic Protein Receptor, Type II (Serine/Threonine Kinase)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BMPR2 include pulmonary venoocclusive disease 1 and pulmonary hypertension, familial primary, 1, with or without hht. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include transforming growth factor beta-activated receptor activity and activin receptor activity, type II. An important paralog of this gene is TGFBR2.	On ligand binding, forms a receptor complex consisting of two type II and two type I transmembrane serine/threonine kinases. Type II receptors phosphorylate and activate type I receptors which autophosphorylate, then bind and activate SMAD transcriptional regulators. Binds to BMP-7, BMP-2 and, less efficiently, BMP-4. Binding is weak but enhanced by the presence of type I receptors for BMPs	same
BMPR1B	This gene encodes a member of the bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) receptor family of transmembrane serine/threonine kinases. The ligands of this receptor are BMPs, which are members of the TGF-beta superfamily. BMPs are involved in endochondral bone formation and embryogenesis. These proteins transduce their signals through the formation of heteromeric complexes of 2 different types of serine (threonine) kinase receptors: type I receptors of about 50-55 kD and type II receptors of about 70-80 kD. Type II receptors bind ligands in the absence of type I receptors, but they require their respective type I receptors for signaling, whereas type I receptors require their respective type II receptors for ligand binding. Mutations in this gene have been associated with primary pulmonary hypertension. Several transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]	BMPR1B (Bone Morphogenetic Protein Receptor, Type IB) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BMPR1B include chrondrodysplasia, acromesomelic, with genital anomalies and brachydactyly, type a2. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and receptor signaling protein serine/threonine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is TGFBR2.	On ligand binding, forms a receptor complex consisting of two type II and two type I transmembrane serine/threonine kinases. Type II receptors phosphorylate and activate type I receptors which autophosphorylate, then bind and activate SMAD transcriptional regulators. Receptor for BMP7/OP-1 and GDF5. Positively regulates chondrocyte differentiation through GDF5 interaction (By similarity).	same
BMS1P4	empty	BMS1P4 (BMS1 Ribosome Biogenesis Factor Pseudogene 4) is a Pseudogene.	empty	same
BMS1P5	empty	BMS1P5 (BMS1 Ribosome Biogenesis Factor Pseudogene 5) is a Pseudogene.	empty	same
BNC1	The protein encoded by this gene is a zinc finger protein present in the basal cell layer of the epidermis and in hair follicles. It is also found in abundance in the germ cells of testis and ovary. This protein is thought to play a regulatory role in keratinocyte proliferation and it may also be a regulator for rRNA transcription. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants, and multiple polyadenylation sites are indicated.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]	BNC1 (Basonuclin 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is BNC2.	Likely to be a transcription factor specific for squamous epithelium and for the constituent keratinocytes at a stage either prior to or at the very beginning of terminal differentiation. May play a role in the differentiation of spermatozoa and oocytes	same
BMX	This gene encodes a non-receptor tyrosine kinase belonging to the Tec kinase family. The protein contains a PH-like domain, which mediates membrane targeting by binding to phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-triphosphate (PIP3), and a SH2 domain that binds to tyrosine-phosphorylated proteins and functions in signal transduction. The protein is implicated in several signal transduction pathways including the Stat pathway, and regulates differentiation and tumorigenicity of several types of cancer cells. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]	BMX (BMX Non-Receptor Tyrosine Kinase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BMX include prostate cancer. Among its related pathways are Akt Signaling and Tyrosine Kinases / Adaptors. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and protein tyrosine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is FER.	Non-receptor tyrosine kinase that plays central but diverse modulatory roles in various signaling processes involved in the regulation of actin reorganization, cell migration, cell proliferation and survival, cell adhesion, and apoptosis. Participates in signal transduction stimulated by growth factor receptors, cytokine receptors, G-protein coupled receptors, antigen receptors and integrins. Induces tyrosine phosphorylation of BCAR1 in response to integrin regulation. Activation of BMX by integrins is mediated by PTK2/FAK1, a key mediator of integrin signaling events leading to the regulation of actin cytoskeleton and cell motility. Plays a critical role in TNF-induced angiogenesis, and implicated in the signaling of TEK and FLT1 receptors, 2 important receptor families essential for angiogenesis. Required for the phosphorylation and activation of STAT3, a transcription factor involved in cell differentiation. Also involved in interleukin-6 (IL6) induced differentiation. Plays also a role in programming adaptive cytoprotection against extracellular stress in different cell systems, salivary epithelial cells, brain endothelial cells, and dermal fibroblasts. May be involved in regulation of endocytosis through its interaction with an endosomal protein RUFY1. May also play a role in the growth and differentiation of hematopoietic cells; as well as in signal transduction in endocardial and arterial endothelial cells.	same
BNIP1	This gene is a member of the BCL2/adenovirus E1B 19 kd-interacting protein (BNIP) family. It interacts with the E1B 19 kDa protein, which protects cells from virally-induced cell death. The encoded protein also interacts with E1B 19 kDa-like sequences of BCL2, another apoptotic protector. In addition, this protein is involved in vesicle transport into the endoplasmic reticulum. Alternative splicing of this gene results in four protein products with identical N- and C-termini. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]	BNIP1 (BCL2/Adenovirus E1B 19kDa Interacting Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BNIP1 include spindle cell hemangioma. Among its related pathways are Nicotine Pathway (Dopaminergic Neuron), Pharmacodynamics.	SNARE that may be involved in targeting and fusion of Golgi-derived retrograde transport vesicles with the ER. Required for maintenance of ER network. Implicated in the suppression of cell death. May be involved in mitochondrial autophagy.	same
BNIP2	This gene is a member of the BCL2/adenovirus E1B 19 kd-interacting protein (BNIP) family. It interacts with the E1B 19 kDa protein, which protects cells from virally-induced cell death. The encoded protein also interacts with E1B 19 kDa-like sequences of BCL2, another apoptotic protector. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]	BNIP2 (BCL2/Adenovirus E1B 19kDa Interacting Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are L1CAM interactions and G-protein signaling_Regulation of CDC42 activity. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and GTPase activator activity. An important paralog of this gene is PRR5-ARHGAP8.	Implicated in the suppression of cell death. Interacts with the BCL-2 and adenovirus E1B 19 kDa proteins	same
BMP2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the transforming growth factor-beta (TGFB) superfamily. The encoded protein acts as a disulfide-linked homodimer and induces bone and cartilage formation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BMP2 (Bone Morphogenetic Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BMP2 include chromosome 17p duplication and hemochromatosis. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protein heterodimerization activity and cytokine activity. An important paralog of this gene is GDF3.	Induces cartilage and bone formation	same
BNIP3	This gene is encodes a mitochondrial protein that contains a BH3 domain and acts as a pro-apoptotic factor. The encoded protein interacts with anti-apoptotic proteins, including the E1B 19 kDa protein and Bcl2. This gene is silenced in tumors by DNA methylation. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2014]	BNIP3 (BCL2/Adenovirus E1B 19kDa Interacting Protein 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BNIP3 include leiomyomatosis and renal cell cancer and malignant glioma. Among its related pathways are HIF-1-alpha transcription factor network and FoxO signaling pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and protein heterodimerization activity. An important paralog of this gene is BNIP3L.	Apoptosis-inducing protein that can overcome BCL2 suppression. May play a role in repartitioning calcium between the two major intracellular calcium stores in association with BCL2. Involved in mitochondrial quality control via its interaction with SPATA18/MIEAP: in response to mitochondrial damage, participates to mitochondrial protein catabolic process (also named MALM) leading to the degradation of damaged proteins inside mitochondria. The physical interaction of SPATA18/MIEAP, BNIP3 and BNIP3L/NIX at the mitochondrial outer membrane regulates the opening of a pore in the mitochondrial double membrane in order to mediate the translocation of lysosomal proteins from the cytoplasm to the mitochondrial matrix. Plays an important role in the calprotectin (S100A8/A9)-induced cell death pathway.	same
BNIPL	The protein encoded by this gene interacts with several other proteins, such as BCL2, ARHGAP1, MIF and GFER. It may function as a bridge molecule between BCL2 and ARHGAP1/CDC42 in promoting cell death. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	BNIPL (BCL2/Adenovirus E1B 19kD Interacting Protein Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BNIPL include trigeminal neuralgia and hepatocellular carcinoma. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is PRR5-ARHGAP8.	May be a bridge molecule between BCL2 and ARHGAP1/CDC42 in promoting cell death.	same
BNIP3L	This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the pro-apoptotic subfamily within the Bcl-2 family of proteins. The encoded protein binds to Bcl-2 and possesses the BH3 domain. The protein directly targets mitochondria and causes apoptotic changes, including loss of membrane potential and the release of cytochrome c. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2015]	BNIP3L (BCL2/Adenovirus E1B 19kDa Interacting Protein 3-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BNIP3L include visual epilepsy. Among its related pathways are Direct p53 effectors and Apoptosis (WikiPathways). GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and protein heterodimerization activity. An important paralog of this gene is BNIP3.	Induces apoptosis. Interacts with viral and cellular anti-apoptosis proteins. Can overcome the suppressors BCL-2 and BCL-XL, although high levels of BCL-XL expression will inhibit apoptosis. Inhibits apoptosis induced by BNIP3. Involved in mitochondrial quality control via its interaction with SPATA18/MIEAP: in response to mitochondrial damage, participates to mitochondrial protein catabolic process (also named MALM) leading to the degradation of damaged proteins inside mitochondria. The physical interaction of SPATA18/MIEAP, BNIP3 and BNIP3L/NIX at the mitochondrial outer membrane regulates the opening of a pore in the mitochondrial double membrane in order to mediate the translocation of lysosomal proteins from the cytoplasm to the mitochondrial matrix. May function as a tumor suppressor.	same
BMS1	This gene likely encodes a ribosome assembly protein. A similar protein in yeast functions in 35S-rRNA processing, which includes a series of cleavage steps critical for formation of 40S ribosomes. Related pseudogenes exist on chromosomes 2, 9, 10, 15, 16, and 22.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]	BMS1 (BMS1 Ribosome Biogenesis Factor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BMS1 include aplasia cutis congenita, nonsyndromic and aplasia cutis congenita. Among its related pathways are Ribosome biogenesis in eukaryotes.	May act as a molecular switch during maturation of the 40S ribosomal subunit in the nucleolus.	same
BOD1	empty	BOD1 (Biorientation Of Chromosomes In Cell Division 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is BOD1L1.	Required for proper chromosome biorientation through the detection or correction of syntelic attachments in mitotic spindles.	same
BOD1L	empty	BOD1L1 (Biorientation Of Chromosomes In Cell Division 1-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is BOD1.	empty	diff
BNC2	empty	BNC2 (Basonuclin 2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is BNC1.	Probable transcription factor specific for skin keratinocytes. May play a role in the differentiation of spermatozoa and oocytes	same
BMP8A	empty	BMP8A (Bone Morphogenetic Protein 8a) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are NF-KappaB Family Pathway and NF-KappaB Family Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include cytokine activity and growth factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is BMP2.	Induces cartilage and bone formation. May be the osteoinductive factor responsible for the phenomenon of epithelial osteogenesis. Plays a role in calcium regulation and bone homeostasis (By similarity). Signaling protein involved in regulation of thermogenesis and energy balance. Proposed to increase the peripheral response of brown adipose tissue (BAT) to adrenergic stimulation while acting centrally in the hypothalamus to increase sympathetic output to BAT.	same
BOC	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the immunoglobulin/fibronectin type III repeat family. It is a component of a cell-surface receptor complex that mediates cell-cell interactions between muscle precursor cells, and promotes myogenic differentiation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	BOC (BOC Cell Adhesion Associated, Oncogene Regulated) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are L1CAM interactions and Signaling events mediated by the Hedgehog family. An important paralog of this gene is CDON.	Component of a cell-surface receptor complex that mediates cell-cell interactions between muscle precursor cells. Promotes differentiation of myogenic cells	same
BOLA2	This gene is located within a region of a segmental duplication on chromosome 16p. The product of this gene belongs to the eukaryotic subfamily of the BolA-like proteins. This gene encodes the BolA-like protein 2. The BolA-like proteins are widely conserved from prokaryotes to eukaryotes, and these proteins seem to be involved in cell proliferation or cell-cycle regulation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BOLA2 (BolA Family Member 2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is BOLA2B.	empty	same
BOK	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the BCL2 family, members of which form homo- or heterodimers, and act as anti- or proapoptotic regulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular processes. Studies in rat show that this protein has restricted expression in reproductive tissues, interacts strongly with some antiapoptotic BCL2 proteins, not at all with proapoptotic BCL2 proteins, and induces apoptosis in transfected cells. Thus, this protein represents a proapoptotic member of the BCL2 family. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]	BOK (BCL2-Related Ovarian Killer) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BOK include colorectal cancer. Among its related pathways are Apoptosis (WikiPathways) and Apoptosis (WikiPathways). GO annotations related to this gene include protein heterodimerization activity and BH domain binding.	Induces apoptosis in a manner dependent on BAX and BAK.	same
BOLL	This gene belongs to the DAZ gene family required for germ cell development. It encodes an RNA-binding protein which is more similar to Drosophila Boule than to human proteins encoded by genes DAZ (deleted in azoospermia) or DAZL (deleted in azoospermia-like). Loss of this gene function results in the absence of sperm in semen (azoospermia). Histological studies demonstrated that the primary defect is at the meiotic G2/M transition. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BOLL (Boule-Like RNA-Binding Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BOLL include actinomycosis and azoospermia. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and translation activator activity. An important paralog of this gene is DAZL.	Probable RNA-binding protein, which may be required during spermatogenesis. May act by binding to the 3-UTR of mRNAs and regulating their translation (By similarity).	same
BPESC1	empty	BPESC1 (Blepharophimosis, Epicanthus Inversus And Ptosis, Candidate 1 (Non-Protein Coding)) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	same
BOP1	empty	BOP1 (Block Of Proliferation 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	Component of the PeBoW complex, which is required for maturation of 28S and 5.8S ribosomal RNAs and formation of the 60S ribosome.	same
BPGM	2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) is a small molecule found at high concentrations in red blood cells where it binds to and decreases the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin. This gene encodes a multifunctional enzyme that catalyzes 2,3-DPG synthesis via its synthetase activity, and 2,3-DPG degradation via its phosphatase activity. The enzyme also has phosphoglycerate phosphomutase activity. Deficiency of this enzyme increases the affinity of cells for oxygen. Mutations in this gene result in hemolytic anemia. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]	BPGM (2,3-Bisphosphoglycerate Mutase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BPGM include erythrocytosis due to bisphosphoglycerate mutase deficiency and hemolytic anemia due to diphosphoglycerate mutase deficiency. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Glycine, serine and threonine metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include bisphosphoglycerate mutase activity and phosphoglycerate mutase activity. An important paralog of this gene is PGAM1.	Plays a major role in regulating hemoglobin oxygen affinity by controlling the levels of its allosteric effector 2,3-bisphosphoglycerate (2,3-BPG). Also exhibits mutase (EC 5.4.2.1) and phosphatase (EC 3.1.3.13) activities	same
BOLA3	This gene encodes a protein that plays an essential role in the production of iron-sulfur (Fe-S) clusters for the normal maturation of lipoate-containing 2-oxoacid dehydrogenases, and for the assembly of the mitochondrial respiratory chain complexes. Mutation in this gene has been associated with multiple mitochondrial dysfunctions syndrome-2. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms with distinct subcellular localization have been reported for this gene (PMID:21944046). [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	BOLA3 (BolA Family Member 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BOLA3 include multiple mitochondrial dysfunctions syndrome 2 and fatal multiple mitochondrial dysfunction syndrome type 2.	empty	same
BPIL2	empty	BPIFC (BPI Fold Containing Family C) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and lipopolysaccharide binding. An important paralog of this gene is BPI.	empty	diff
BPHL	This gene encodes a member of the serine protease family of hydrolytic enzymes which contain a serine in their active site. The encoded protein may play a role in activation of the antiviral prodrug valacyclovir. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]	BPHL (Biphenyl Hydrolase-Like (Serine Hydrolase)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrolase activity.	Serine hydrolase that catalyzes the hydrolytic activation of amino acid ester prodrugs of nucleoside analogs such as valacyclovir and valganciclovir. Activates valacyclovir to acyclovir. May play a role in detoxification processes. It is a specific alpha-amino acid ester hydrolase that prefers small, hydrophobic, and aromatic side chains and does not have a stringent requirement for the leaving group other than preferring a primary alcohol.	same
BPY2	This gene is located in the nonrecombining portion of the Y chromosome, and expressed specifically in testis. The encoded protein interacts with ubiquitin protein ligase E3A and may be involved in male germ cell development and male infertility. Three nearly identical copies of this gene exist on chromosome Y; two copies are part of a palindromic region. This record represents the copy outside of the palidromic region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BPY2 (Basic Charge, Y-Linked, 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BPY2 include y chromosome infertility and male infertility. An important paralog of this gene is BPY2B.	empty	same
BPNT1	BPNT1, also called bisphosphate 3-prime-nucleotidase, or BPntase, is a member of a magnesium-dependent phosphomonoesterase family. Lithium, a major drug used to treat manic depression, acts as an uncompetitive inhibitor of BPntase. The predicted human protein is 92% identical to mouse BPntase. BPntase's physiologic role in nucleotide metabolism may be regulated by inositol signaling pathways. The inhibition of human BPntase may account for lithium-induced nephrotoxicity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BPNT1 (3'(2'), 5'-Bisphosphate Nucleotidase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Akt Signaling and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include magnesium ion binding and 3(2),5-bisphosphate nucleotidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is IMPAD1.	Converts adenosine 3-phosphate 5-phosphosulfate (PAPS) to adenosine 5-phosphosulfate (APS) and 3(2)-phosphoadenosine 5- phosphate (PAP) to AMP. Has 1000-fold lower activity towards inositol 1,4-bisphosphate (Ins(1,4)P2) and inositol 1,3,4-trisphosphate (Ins(1,3,4)P3), but does not hydrolyze Ins(1)P, Ins(3,4)P2, Ins(1,3,4,5)P4 or InsP6.	same
BPTF	This gene was identified by the reactivity of its encoded protein to a monoclonal antibody prepared against brain homogenates from patients with Alzheimer's disease. Analysis of the original protein (fetal Alz-50 reactive clone 1, or FAC1), identified as an 810 aa protein containing a DNA-binding domain and a zinc finger motif, suggested it might play a role in the regulation of transcription. High levels of FAC1 were detected in fetal brain and in patients with neurodegenerative diseases. The protein encoded by this gene is actually much larger than originally thought, and it also contains a C-terminal bromodomain characteristic of proteins that regulate transcription during proliferation. The encoded protein is highly similar to the largest subunit of the Drosophila NURF (nucleosome remodeling factor) complex. In Drosophila, the NURF complex, which catalyzes nucleosome sliding on DNA and interacts with sequence-specific transcription factors, is necessary for the chromatin remodeling required for transcription. Two alternative transcripts encoding different isoforms have been described completely. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BPTF (Bromodomain PHD Finger Transcription Factor) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding and DNA-dependent ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is KAT2A.	Histone-binding component of NURF (nucleosome-remodeling factor), a complex which catalyzes ATP-dependent nucleosome sliding and facilitates transcription of chromatin. Specifically recognizes H3 tails trimethylated on Lys-4 (H3K4me3), which mark transcription start sites of virtually all active genes. May also regulate transcription through direct binding to DNA or transcription factors	same
BPIL1	This gene encodes a member of the lipid transfer/lipopolysaccharide binding protein (LT/LBP) gene family. It is highly expressed in hypertrophic tonsils. This gene and three other members of the LT/LBP gene family form a cluster on the long arm of chromosome 20. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BPIFB2 (BPI Fold Containing Family B, Member 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include lipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is BPIFB6.	empty	diff
BOLA1	empty	BOLA1 (BolA Family Member 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
BPI	This gene encodes a lipopolysaccharide binding protein. It is associated with human neutrophil granules and has antimicrobial activity against gram-negative organisms. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]	BPI (Bactericidal/Permeability-Increasing Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BPI include meningococcemia and stenotrophomonas maltophilia. GO annotations related to this gene include lipopolysaccharide binding. An important paralog of this gene is LBP.	The cytotoxic action of BPI is limited to many species of Gram-negative bacteria; this specificity may be explained by a strong affinity of the very basic N-terminal half for the negatively charged lipopolysaccharides that are unique to the Gram-negative bacterial outer envelope. Has antibacterial activity against the Gram-nagative bacterium P.aeruginosa, this activity is inhibited by LPS from P.aeruginosa.	same
BPIL3	empty	BPIFB6 (BPI Fold Containing Family B, Member 6) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include lipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is BPIFB2.	empty	diff
BRAF	This gene encodes a protein belonging to the raf/mil family of serine/threonine protein kinases. This protein plays a role in regulating the MAP kinase/ERKs signaling pathway, which affects cell division, differentiation, and secretion. Mutations in this gene are associated with cardiofaciocutaneous syndrome, a disease characterized by heart defects, mental retardation and a distinctive facial appearance. Mutations in this gene have also been associated with various cancers, including non-Hodgkin lymphoma, colorectal cancer, malignant melanoma, thyroid carcinoma, non-small cell lung carcinoma, and adenocarcinoma of lung. A pseudogene, which is located on chromosome X, has been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BRAF (B-Raf Proto-Oncogene, Serine/Threonine Kinase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BRAF include noonan syndrome 7 and leopard syndrome 3. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and protein serine/threonine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is MAP3K9.	Protein kinase involved in the transduction of mitogenic signals from the cell membrane to the nucleus. May play a role in the postsynaptic responses of hippocampal neuron. Phosphorylates MAP2K1, and thereby contributes to the MAP kinase signal transduction pathway.	same
BRCA1	This gene encodes a nuclear phosphoprotein that plays a role in maintaining genomic stability, and it also acts as a tumor suppressor. The encoded protein combines with other tumor suppressors, DNA damage sensors, and signal transducers to form a large multi-subunit protein complex known as the BRCA1-associated genome surveillance complex (BASC). This gene product associates with RNA polymerase II, and through the C-terminal domain, also interacts with histone deacetylase complexes. This protein thus plays a role in transcription, DNA repair of double-stranded breaks, and recombination. Mutations in this gene are responsible for approximately 40% of inherited breast cancers and more than 80% of inherited breast and ovarian cancers. Alternative splicing plays a role in modulating the subcellular localization and physiological function of this gene. Many alternatively spliced transcript variants, some of which are disease-associated mutations, have been described for this gene, but the full-length natures of only some of these variants has been described. A related pseudogene, which is also located on chromosome 17, has been identified. [provided by RefSeq, May 2009]	BRCA1 (Breast Cancer 1, Early Onset) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BRCA1 include pancreatic cancer 4 and breast-ovarian cancer, familial, 1. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and enzyme binding.	E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase that specifically mediates the formation of Lys-6-linked polyubiquitin chains and plays a central role in DNA repair by facilitating cellular responses to DNA damage. It is unclear whether it also mediates the formation of other types of polyubiquitin chains. The E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase activity is required for its tumor suppressor function. The BRCA1-BARD1 heterodimer coordinates a diverse range of cellular pathways such as DNA damage repair, ubiquitination and transcriptional regulation to maintain genomic stability. Regulates centrosomal microtubule nucleation. Required for normal cell cycle progression from G2 to mitosis. Required for appropriate cell cycle arrests after ionizing irradiation in both the S-phase and the G2 phase of the cell cycle. Involved in transcriptional regulation of P21 in response to DNA damage. Required for FANCD2 targeting to sites of DNA damage. May function as a transcriptional regulator. Inhibits lipid synthesis by binding to inactive phosphorylated ACACA and preventing its dephosphorylation. Contributes to homologous recombination repair (HRR) via its direct interaction with PALB2, fine-tunes recombinational repair partly through its modulatory role in the PALB2-dependent loading of BRCA2-RAD51 repair machinery at DNA breaks. Component of the BRCA1-RBBP8 complex which regulates CHEK1 activation and controls cell cycle G2/M checkpoints on DNA damage via BRCA1-mediated ubiquitination of RBBP8.	same
BRD1	This gene encodes a bromodomain-containing protein that localizes to the nucleus and can interact with DNA and histone tails. The encoded protein is a component of the MOZ/MORF acetyltransferase complex and can stimulate acetylation of histones H3 and H4, thereby potentially playing a role in gene activation. Variation in this gene is associated with schozophrenia and bipolar disorder in some study populations. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2015]	BRD1 (Bromodomain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are RNA Polymerase I Promoter Opening and RNA Polymerase I Promoter Opening. GO annotations related to this gene include histone binding. An important paralog of this gene is PHF14.	Component of the MOZ/MORF complex which has a histone H3 acetyltransferase activity.	same
BRCA2	Inherited mutations in BRCA1 and this gene, BRCA2, confer increased lifetime risk of developing breast or ovarian cancer. Both BRCA1 and BRCA2 are involved in maintenance of genome stability, specifically the homologous recombination pathway for double-strand DNA repair. The BRCA2 protein contains several copies of a 70 aa motif called the BRC motif, and these motifs mediate binding to the RAD51 recombinase which functions in DNA repair. BRCA2 is considered a tumor suppressor gene, as tumors with BRCA2 mutations generally exhibit loss of heterozygosity (LOH) of the wild-type allele. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]	BRCA2 (Breast Cancer 2, Early Onset) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BRCA2 include breast cancer and fanconi anemia, complementation group d1. Among its related pathways are Pathways in cancer and GPCR Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include single-stranded DNA binding and histone acetyltransferase activity.	Involved in double-strand break repair and/or homologous recombination. Binds RAD51 and potentiates recombinational DNA repair by promoting assembly of RAD51 onto single-stranded DNA (ssDNA). Acts by targeting RAD51 to ssDNA over double-stranded DNA, enabling RAD51 to displace replication protein-A (RPA) from ssDNA and stabilizing RAD51-ssDNA filaments by blocking ATP hydrolysis. Part of a PALB2-scaffolded HR complex containing RAD51C and which is thought to play a role in DNA repair by HR. May participate in S phase checkpoint activation. Binds selectively to ssDNA, and to ssDNA in tailed duplexes and replication fork structures. May play a role in the extension step after strand invasion at replication-dependent DNA double-strand breaks; together with PALB2 is involved in both POLH localization at collapsed replication forks and DNA polymerization activity. In concert with NPM1, regulates centrosome duplication. Interacts with the TREX-2 complex (transcription and export complex 2) subunits PCID2 and DSS1, and is required to prevent R-loop-associated DNA damage and thus transcription-associated genomic instability. Silencing of BRCA2 promotes R-loop accumulation at actively transcribed genes in replicating and non-replicating cells, suggesting that BRCA2 mediates the control of R-loop associated genomic instability, independently of its known role in homologous recombination (PubMed:24896180).	same
BRD8	The protein encoded by this gene interacts with thyroid hormone receptor in a ligand-dependent manner and enhances thyroid hormone-dependent activation from thyroid response elements. This protein contains a bromodomain and is thought to be a nuclear receptor coactivator. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode distinct isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]	BRD8 (Bromodomain Containing 8) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Endocytosis and RNA Polymerase I Promoter Opening. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and thyroid hormone receptor activity.	May act as a coactivator during transcriptional activation by hormone-activated nuclear receptors (NR). Isoform 2 stimulates transcriptional activation by AR/DHTR, ESR1/NR3A1, RXRA/NR2B1 and THRB/ERBA2. At least isoform 1 and isoform 2 are components of the NuA4 histone acetyltransferase (HAT) complex which is involved in transcriptional activation of select genes principally by acetylation of nucleosomal histones H4 and H2A. This modification may both alter nucleosome - DNA interactions and promote interaction of the modified histones with other proteins which positively regulate transcription. This complex may be required for the activation of transcriptional programs associated with oncogene and proto-oncogene mediated growth induction, tumor suppressor mediated growth arrest and replicative senescence, apoptosis, and DNA repair. NuA4 may also play a direct role in DNA repair when recruited to sites of DNA damage. Component of a SWR1-like complex that specifically mediates the removal of histone H2A.Z/H2AFZ from the nucleosome.	same
BRD2	This gene encodes a transcriptional regulator that belongs to the BET (bromodomains and extra terminal domain) family of proteins. This protein associates with transcription complexes and with acetylated chromatin during mitosis, and it selectively binds to the acetylated lysine-12 residue of histone H4 via its two bromodomains. The gene maps to the major histocompatability complex (MHC) class II region on chromosome 6p21.3, but sequence comparison suggests that the protein is not involved in the immune response. This gene has been implicated in juvenile myoclonic epilepsy, a common form of epilepsy that becomes apparent in adolescence. Multiple alternatively spliced variants have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]	BRD2 (Bromodomain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BRD2 include photosensitive epilepsy. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle / Checkpoint Control and Wnt / Hedgehog / Notch. GO annotations related to this gene include chromatin binding and lysine-acetylated histone binding. An important paralog of this gene is BRD4.	May play a role in spermatogenesis or folliculogenesis (By similarity). Binds hyperacetylated chromatin and plays a role in the regulation of transcription, probably by chromatin remodeling. Regulates transcription of the CCND1 gene. Plays a role in nucleosome assembly.	same
BRD9	empty	BRD9 (Bromodomain Containing 9) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BRD9 include shipyard eye and rhabdomyosarcoma. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleic acid binding and lysine-acetylated histone binding. An important paralog of this gene is BRD7.	May play a role in chromatin remodeling and regulation of transcription	same
BRD4	The protein encoded by this gene is homologous to the murine protein MCAP, which associates with chromosomes during mitosis, and to the human RING3 protein, a serine/threonine kinase. Each of these proteins contains two bromodomains, a conserved sequence motif which may be involved in chromatin targeting. This gene has been implicated as the chromosome 19 target of translocation t(15;19)(q13;p13.1), which defines an upper respiratory tract carcinoma in young people. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BRD4 (Bromodomain Containing 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Chromatin Regulation / Acetylation and Beta-Adrenergic Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include chromatin binding and lysine-acetylated histone binding. An important paralog of this gene is BRDT.	Chromatin reader protein that recognizes and binds acetylated histones and plays a key role in transmission of epigenetic memory across cell divisions and transcription regulation. Remains associated with acetylated chromatin throughout the entire cell cycle and provides epigenetic memory for postmitotic G1 gene transcription by preserving acetylated chromatin status and maintaining high-order chromatin structure. During interphase, plays a key role in regulating the transcription of signal-inducible genes by associating with the P-TEFb complex and recruiting it to promoters: BRD4 is required to form the transcriptionally active P-TEFb complex by displacing negative regulators such as HEXIM1 and 7SKsnRNA complex from P-TEFb, thereby transforming it into an active form that can then phosphorylate the C-terminal domain (CTD) of RNA polymerase II. Promotes phosphorylation of Ser-2 of the C-terminal domain (CTD) of RNA polymerase II. According to a report, directly acts as an atypical protein kinase and mediates phosphorylation of Ser-2 of the C-terminal domain (CTD) of RNA polymerase II; these data however need additional evidences in vivo (PubMed:22509028). In addition to acetylated histones, also recognizes and binds acetylated RELA, leading to further recruitment of the P-TEFb complex and subsequent activation of NF-kappa-B. Also acts as a regulator of p53/TP53-mediated transcription: following phosphorylation by CK2, recruited to p53/TP53 specific target promoters.	same
BRAP	The protein encoded by this gene was identified by its ability to bind to the nuclear localization signal of BRCA1 and other proteins. It is a cytoplasmic protein which may regulate nuclear targeting by retaining proteins with a nuclear localization signal in the cytoplasm. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BRAP (BRCA1 Associated Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Ras signaling pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleotide binding and nuclear localization sequence binding.	Negatively regulates MAP kinase activation by limiting the formation of Raf/MEK complexes probably by inactivation of the KSR1 scaffold protein. Also acts as a Ras responsive E3 ubiquitin ligase that, on activation of Ras, is modified by auto-polyubiquitination resulting in the release of inhibition of Raf/MEK complex formation. May also act as a cytoplasmic retention protein with a role in regulating nuclear transport.	same
BRDT	BRDT is similar to the RING3 protein family. It possesses 2 bromodomain motifs and a PEST sequence (a cluster of proline, glutamic acid, serine, and threonine residues), characteristic of proteins that undergo rapid intracellular degradation. The bromodomain is found in proteins that regulate transcription. Several transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]	BRDT (Bromodomain, Testis-Specific) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include transcription coactivator activity and lysine-acetylated histone binding. An important paralog of this gene is BRD4.	Testis-specific chromatin protein that specifically binds histone H4 acetylated at Lys-5 and Lys-8 (H4K5ac and H4K8ac, respectively) and plays a key role in spermatogenesis. Required in late pachytene spermatocytes: plays a role in meiotic and post-meiotic cells by binding to acetylated histones at the promoter of specific meiotic and post-meiotic genes, facilitating their activation at the appropriate time. In the post-meiotic phase of spermatogenesis, binds to hyperacetylated histones and participates in their general removal from DNA. Also acts as a component of the splicing machinery in pachytene spermatocytes and round spermatids and participates in 3-UTR truncation of specific mRNAs in post-meiotic spermatids. Required for chromocenter organization, a structure comprised of peri-centromeric heterochromatin.	same
BRD7P3	empty	BRD7P3 (Bromodomain Containing 7 Pseudogene 3) is a Pseudogene.	empty	same
BREA2	empty	BREA2 (Breast Cancer Estrogen-Induced Apoptosis 2) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class. Diseases associated with BREA2 include breast cancer.	empty	same
BRI3BP	empty	BRI3BP (BRI3 Binding Protein) is a Protein Coding gene.	Involved in tumorigenesis and may function by stabilizing p53/TP53.	same
BRD3	This gene was identified based on its homology to the gene encoding the RING3 protein, a serine/threonine kinase. The gene localizes to 9q34, a region which contains several major histocompatibility complex (MHC) genes. The function of the encoded protein is not known. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BRD3 (Bromodomain Containing 3) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include chromatin binding and lysine-acetylated histone binding. An important paralog of this gene is BRD4.	Binds hyperacetylated chromatin and plays a role in the regulation of transcription, probably by chromatin remodeling and interaction with transcription factors. Regulates transcription by promoting the binding of the transcription factor GATA1 to its targets (By similarity). Regulates transcription of the CCND1 gene.	same
BRCC3	This gene encodes a subunit of the BRCA1-BRCA2-containing complex (BRCC), which is an E3 ubiquitin ligase. This complex plays a role in the DNA damage response, where it is responsible for the stable accumulation of BRCA1 at DNA break sites. The component encoded by this gene can specifically cleave Lys 63-linked polyubiquitin chains, and it regulates the abundance of these polyubiquitin chains in chromatin. The loss of this gene results in abnormal angiogenesis and is associated with syndromic moyamoya, a cerebrovascular angiopathy. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A related pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 5. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]	BRCC3 (BRCA1/BRCA2-Containing Complex, Subunit 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BRCC3 include moyamoya disease - short stature - facial dysmorphism - hypergonadotropic hypogonadism. GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin thiolesterase activity and ubiquitin-specific protease activity.	Metalloprotease that specifically cleaves Lys-63-linked polyubiquitin chains. Does not have activity toward Lys-48-linked polyubiquitin chains. Component of the BRCA1-A complex, a complex that specifically recognizes Lys-63-linked ubiquitinated histones H2A and H2AX at DNA lesions sites, leading to target the BRCA1-BARD1 heterodimer to sites of DNA damage at double-strand breaks (DSBs). In the BRCA1-A complex, it specifically removes Lys-63-linked ubiquitin on histones H2A and H2AX, antagonizing the RNF8-dependent ubiquitination at double-strand breaks (DSBs). Catalytic subunit of the BRISC complex, a multiprotein complex that specifically cleaves Lys-63-linked ubiquitin in various substrates. Mediates the specific Lys-63-specific deubiquitination associated with the COP9 signalosome complex (CSN), via the interaction of the BRISC complex with the CSN complex.	same
BRE	empty	BRE (Brain And Reproductive Organ-Expressed (TNFRSF1A Modulator)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle / Checkpoint Control and Cell Cycle / Checkpoint Control. GO annotations related to this gene include tumor necrosis factor receptor binding and peroxisome targeting sequence binding.	Component of the BRCA1-A complex, a complex that specifically recognizes Lys-63-linked ubiquitinated histones H2A and H2AX at DNA lesions sites, leading to target the BRCA1-BARD1 heterodimer to sites of DNA damage at double-strand breaks (DSBs). The BRCA1-A complex also possesses deubiquitinase activity that specifically removes Lys-63-linked ubiquitin on histones H2A and H2AX. In the BRCA1-A complex, it acts as an adapter that bridges the interaction between BABAM1/NBA1 and the rest of the complex, thereby being required for the complex integrity and modulating the E3 ubiquitin ligase activity of the BRCA1-BARD1 heterodimer. Probably also plays a role as a component of the BRISC complex, a multiprotein complex that specifically cleaves Lys-63-linked ubiquitin. May play a role in homeostasis or cellular differentiation in cells of neural, epithelial and germline origins. May also act as a death receptor-associated anti-apoptotic protein, which inhibits the mitochondrial apoptotic pathway. May regulate TNF-alpha signaling through its interactions with TNFRSF1A; however these effects may be indirect.	same
BRF2	This gene encodes one of the multiple subunits of the RNA polymerase III transcription factor complex required for transcription of genes with promoter elements upstream of the initiation site. The product of this gene, a TFIIB-like factor, is directly recruited to the TATA-box of polymerase III small nuclear RNA gene promoters through its interaction with the TATA-binding protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BRF2 (BRF2, RNA Polymerase III Transcription Initiation Factor 50 KDa Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BRF2 include lung squamous cell carcinoma. Among its related pathways are Translational Control and Gene Expression.	General activator of RNA polymerase III transcription. Factor exclusively required for RNA polymerase III transcription of genes with promoter elements upstream of the initiation sites.	same
BRIP1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the RecQ DEAH helicase family and interacts with the BRCT repeats of breast cancer, type 1 (BRCA1). The bound complex is important in the normal double-strand break repair function of breast cancer, type 1 (BRCA1). This gene may be a target of germline cancer-inducing mutations. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BRIP1 (BRCA1 Interacting Protein C-Terminal Helicase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BRIP1 include fanconi anemia, complementation group j and brip1-related breast cancer. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle / Checkpoint Control and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include 4 iron, 4 sulfur cluster binding and ATP-dependent DNA helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is RTEL1.	DNA-dependent ATPase and 5 to 3 DNA helicase required for the maintenance of chromosomal stability. Acts late in the Fanconi anemia pathway, after FANCD2 ubiquitination. Involved in the repair of DNA double-strand breaks by homologous recombination in a manner that depends on its association with BRCA1.	same
BRI3	empty	BRI3 (Brain Protein I3) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
BRF1	This gene encodes one of the three subunits of the RNA polymerase III transcription factor complex. This complex plays a central role in transcription initiation by RNA polymerase III on genes encoding tRNA, 5S rRNA, and other small structural RNAs. The gene product belongs to the TF2B family. Several alternatively spliced variants encoding different isoforms, that function at different promoters transcribed by RNA polymerase III, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]	BRF1 (BRF1, RNA Polymerase III Transcription Initiation Factor 90 KDa Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BRF1 include cerebellofaciodental syndrome. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and Integrated Pancreatic Cancer Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include TBP-class protein binding.	General activator of RNA polymerase which utilizes different TFIIIB complexes at structurally distinct promoters. The isoform 1 is involved in the transcription of tRNA, adenovirus VA1, 7SL and 5S RNA. Isoform 2 is required for transcription of the U6 promoter	same
BRP44L	The protein encoded by this gene is part of an MPC1/MPC2 heterodimer that is responsible for transporting pyruvate into mitochondria. The encoded protein is found in the inner mitochondrial membrane. Defects in this gene are a cause of mitochondrial pyruvate carrier deficiency. Several transcript variants, some protein coding and one non-protein coding, have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012]	MPC1 (Mitochondrial Pyruvate Carrier 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with MPC1 include mitochondrial pyruvate carrier deficiency. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Respiratory electron transport, ATP synthesis by chemiosmotic coupling, and heat production by uncoupling proteins.. GO annotations related to this gene include pyruvate transmembrane transporter activity.	Mediates the uptake of pyruvate into mitochondria.	diff
BRMS1	This gene reduces the metastatic potential, but not the tumorogenicity, of human breast cancer and melanoma cell lines. The protein encoded by this gene localizes primarily to the nucleus and is a component of the mSin3a family of histone deacetylase complexes (HDAC). The protein contains two coiled-coil motifs and several imperfect leucine zipper motifs. Alternative splicing results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BRMS1 (Breast Cancer Metastasis Suppressor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BRMS1 include breast cancer and melanoma. GO annotations related to this gene include NF-kappaB binding. An important paralog of this gene is BRMS1L.	Transcriptional repressor. Down-regulates transcription activation by NF-kappa-B by promoting the deacetylation of RELA at Lys-310. Promotes HDAC1 binding to promoter regions. Down-regulates expression of anti-apoptotic genes that are controlled by NF-kappa-B. Promotes apoptosis in cells that have inadequate adherence to a substrate, a process called anoikis, and may thereby inhibit metastasis. May be a mediator of metastasis suppression in breast carcinoma.	same
BRP44	empty	MPC2 (Mitochondrial Pyruvate Carrier 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Respiratory electron transport, ATP synthesis by chemiosmotic coupling, and heat production by uncoupling proteins.. GO annotations related to this gene include pyruvate transmembrane transporter activity.	Mediates the uptake of pyruvate into mitochondria.	diff
BRD7	This gene encodes a protein which is a member of the bromodomain-containing protein family. The product of this gene has been identified as a component of one form of the SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling complex, and as a protein which interacts with p53 and is required for p53-dependent oncogene-induced senescence which prevents tumor growth. Pseudogenes have been described on chromosomes 2, 3, 6, 13 and 14. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]	BRD7 (Bromodomain Containing 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BRD7 include nasopharynx carcinoma. Among its related pathways are Wnt signaling pathway (KEGG). GO annotations related to this gene include transcription factor binding and transcription corepressor activity. An important paralog of this gene is BRD9.	Acts both as coactivator and as corepressor. May play a role in chromatin remodeling. Activator of the Wnt signaling pathway in a DVL1-dependent manner by negatively regulating the GSK3B phosphotransferase activity. Induces dephosphorylation of GSK3B at Tyr-216. Down-regulates TRIM24-mediated activation of transcriptional activation by AR (By similarity). Transcriptional corepressor that down-regulates the expression of target genes. Binds to target promoters, leading to increased histone H3 acetylation at Lys-9 (H3K9ac). Binds to the ESR1 promoter. Recruits BRCA1 and POU2F1 to the ESR1 promoter. Coactivator for TP53-mediated activation of transcription of a set of target genes. Required for TP53-mediated cell-cycle arrest in response to oncogene activation. Promotes acetylation of TP53 at Lys-382, and thereby promotes efficient recruitment of TP53 to target promoters. Inhibits cell cycle progression from G1 to S phase.	same
BRMS1L	The protein encoded by this gene shows sequence similarity to the human breast carcinoma metastasis suppressor (BRMS1) protein and the mammalian Sds3 (suppressor of defective silencing 3) proteins. This protein is a component of the mSin3a family of histone deacetylase complexes (HDAC). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BRMS1L (Breast Cancer Metastasis-Suppressor 1-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BRMS1L include breast cancer. An important paralog of this gene is SUDS3.	Involved in the histone deacetylase (HDAC1)-dependent transcriptional repression activity. When overexpressed in lung cancer cell line that lacks p53/TP53 expression, inhibits cell growth.	same
BRS3	The protein encoded by this gene is a G protein-coupled membrane receptor that binds bombesin-like peptides. This binding results in activation of a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system, with physiological effects including regulation of metabolic rate, glucose metabolism, and hypertension. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]	BRS3 (Bombesin-Like Receptor 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BRS3 include lung cancer and prostate cancer. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include bombesin receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is EDNRB.	Role in sperm cell division, maturation, or function. This receptor mediates its action by association with G proteins that activate a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system	same
BRSK1	empty	BRSK1 (BR Serine/Threonine Kinase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle / Checkpoint Control and Glucose / Energy Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and magnesium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is MARK4.	Serine/threonine-protein kinase that plays a key role in polarization of neurons and centrosome duplication. Phosphorylates CDC25B, CDC25C, MAPT/TAU, RIMS1, TUBG1, TUBG2 and WEE1. Following phosphorylation and activation by STK11/LKB1, acts as a key regulator of polarization of cortical neurons, probably by mediating phosphorylation of microtubule-associated proteins such as MAPT/TAU at Thr-529 and Ser-579. Also regulates neuron polarization by mediating phosphorylation of WEE1 at Ser-642 in post-mitotic neurons, leading to down-regulate WEE1 activity in polarized neurons. In neurons, localizes to synaptic vesicles and plays a role in neurotransmitter release, possibly by phosphorylating RIMS1. Also acts as a positive regulator of centrosome duplication by mediating phosphorylation of gamma-tubulin (TUBG1 and TUBG2) at Ser-131, leading to translocation of gamma-tubulin and its associated proteins to the centrosome. Involved in the UV-induced DNA damage checkpoint response, probably by inhibiting CDK1 activity through phosphorylation and activation of WEE1, and inhibition of CDC25B and CDC25C.	same
BRIX1	empty	BRIX1 (BRX1, Biogenesis Of Ribosomes) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Gastric cancer network 2.	Required for biogenesis of the 60S ribosomal subunit	same
BRPF1	The protein encoded by this gene is expressed ubiquitously and at the highest level in testes and spermatogonia. The protein is localized within nuclei, and it is very similar in structure to two zinc finger proteins, AF10 and AF17. It is suggested that these proteins form a family of regulatory proteins. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BRPF1 (Bromodomain And PHD Finger Containing, 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are RNA Polymerase I Promoter Opening and RNA Polymerase I Promoter Opening. An important paralog of this gene is PHF14.	Component of the MOZ/MORF complex which has a histone H3 acetyltransferase activity. Positively regulates the transcription of RUNX1 and RUNX2.	same
BRWD3	The protein encoded by this gene contains a bromodomain and several WD repeats. It is thought to have a chromatin-modifying function, and may thus play a role in transcription. Mutations in this gene cause mental retardation X-linked type 93, which is also referred to as mental retardation X-linked with macrocephaly. This gene is also associated with translocations in patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	BRWD3 (Bromodomain And WD Repeat Domain Containing 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BRWD3 include chronic lymphocytic leukemia and mental retardation. An important paralog of this gene is PHIP.	Plays a role in the regulation of cell morphology and cytoskeletal organization. Required in the control of cell shape.	same
BSCL2	This gene encodes the multi-pass transmembrane protein protein seipin. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and may be important for lipid droplet morphology. Mutations in this gene have been associated with congenital generalized lipodystrophy type 2 or Berardinelli-Seip syndrome, a rare autosomal recessive disease characterized by a near absence of adipose tissue and severe insulin resistance. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. Naturally occurring read-through transcription occurs between this locus and the neighboring locus HNRNPUL2 (heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein U-like 2).[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]	BSCL2 (Berardinelli-Seip Congenital Lipodystrophy 2 (Seipin)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BSCL2 include lipodystrophy, congenital generalized, type 2 and encephalopathy, progressive, with or without lipodystrophy. Among its related pathways are Adipogenesis.	Is a regulator of lipid catabolism essential for adipocyte differentiation. May also be involved in the central regulation of energy homeostasis (By similarity). Necessary for correct lipid storage and lipid droplets maintenance; may play a tissue-autonomous role in controlling lipid storage in adipocytes and in preventing ectopic lipid droplet formation in non-adipose tissues.	same
BRWD1	This gene encodes a member of the WD repeat protein family. WD repeats are minimally conserved regions of approximately 40 amino acids typically bracketed by gly-his and trp-asp (GH-WD) residues which may facilitate formation of heterotrimeric or multiprotein complexes. Members of this family are involved in a variety of cellular processes including cell cycle progression, signal transduction, apoptosis, and gene regulation. This protein contains 2 bromodomains and multiple WD repeats. This gene is located within the Down syndrome region-2 on chromosome 21. Alternative splicing of this gene generates multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. In mouse, this gene encodes a nuclear protein that has a polyglutamine-containing region that functions as a transcriptional activation domain which may regulate chromatin remodelling and associates with a component of the SWI/SNF chromatin remodelling complex.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]	BRWD1 (Bromodomain And WD Repeat Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BRWD1 include coronin-1a deficiency. An important paralog of this gene is BRWD3.	May be a transcriptional activator. May be involved in chromatin remodeling (By similarity). Plays a role in the regulation of cell morphology and cytoskeletal organization. Required in the control of cell shape.	same
BRSK2	empty	BRSK2 (BR Serine/Threonine Kinase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BRSK2 include limbic encephalitis. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle / Checkpoint Control and Glucose / Energy Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and magnesium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is MARK4.	Serine/threonine-protein kinase that plays a key role in polarization of neurons and axonogenesis, cell cycle progress and insulin secretion. Phosphorylates CDK16, CDC25C, MAPT/TAU, PAK1 and WEE1. Following phosphorylation and activation by STK11/LKB1, acts as a key regulator of polarization of cortical neurons, probably by mediating phosphorylation of microtubule-associated proteins such as MAPT/TAU at Thr-529 and Ser-579. Also regulates neuron polarization by mediating phosphorylation of WEE1 at Ser-642 in postmitotic neurons, leading to down-regulate WEE1 activity in polarized neurons. Plays a role in the regulation of the mitotic cell cycle progress and the onset of mitosis. Plays a role in the regulation of insulin secretion in response to elevated glucose levels, probably via phosphorylation of CDK16 and PAK1. While BRSK2 phosphorylated at Thr-174 can inhibit insulin secretion (PubMed:22798068), BRSK2 phosphorylated at Thr-260 can promote insulin secretion (PubMed:22669945). Regulates reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton. May play a role in the apoptotic response triggered by endoplasmatic reticulum (ER) stress.	same
BSG	The protein encoded by this gene is a plasma membrane protein that is important in spermatogenesis, embryo implantation, neural network formation, and tumor progression. The encoded protein is also a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BSG (Basigin (Ok Blood Group)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BSG include spinal cord astrocytoma and brain stem glioma. Among its related pathways are Hemostasis and Degradation of the extracellular matrix. GO annotations related to this gene include mannose binding. An important paralog of this gene is NPTN.	Plays an important role in targeting the monocarboxylate transporters SLC16A1, SLC16A3 and SLC16A8 to the plasma membrane. Plays pivotal roles in spermatogenesis, embryo implantation, neural network formation and tumor progression. Stimulates adjacent fibroblasts to produce matrix metalloproteinases (MMPS). Seems to be a receptor for oligomannosidic glycans. In vitro, promotes outgrowth of astrocytic processes.	same
BSND	This gene encodes an essential beta subunit for CLC chloride channels. These heteromeric channels localize to basolateral membranes of renal tubules and of potassium-secreting epithelia of the inner ear. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Bartter syndrome with sensorineural deafness. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BSND (Barttin CLCNK-Type Chloride Channel Accessory Beta Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BSND include bartter syndrome, type 4a and bartter syndrome type 4. Among its related pathways are Diuretics Pathway, Pharmacodynamics and Ion channel transport. GO annotations related to this gene include chloride channel activity and chloride channel regulator activity.	Functions as a beta-subunit for CLCNKA and CLCNKB chloride channels. In the kidney CLCNK/BSND heteromers mediate chloride reabsorption by facilitating its basolateral efflux. In the stria, CLCNK/BSND channels drive potassium secretion by recycling chloride for the basolateral SLC12A2 cotransporter.	same
BSPH1	empty	BSPH1 (Binder Of Sperm Protein Homolog 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	May play a role in sperm capacitation.	same
BST1	Bone marrow stromal cell antigen-1 is a stromal cell line-derived glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored molecule that facilitates pre-B-cell growth. The deduced amino acid sequence exhibits 33% similarity with CD38. BST1 expression is enhanced in bone marrow stromal cell lines derived from patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The polyclonal B-cell abnormalities in rheumatoid arthritis may be, at least in part, attributed to BST1 overexpression in the stromal cell population. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BST1 (Bone Marrow Stromal Cell Antigen 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BST1 include rheumatoid arthritis and arthritis. Among its related pathways are Nicotinate and nicotinamide metabolism and Salivary secretion. GO annotations related to this gene include NAD+ nucleosidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CD38.	Synthesizes the second messagers cyclic ADP-ribose and nicotinate-adenine dinucleotide phosphate, the former a second messenger that elicits calcium release from intracellular stores. May be involved in pre-B-cell growth.	same
BSN	Neurotransmitters are released from a specific site in the axon terminal called the active zone, which is composed of synaptic vesicles and a meshwork of cytoskeleton underlying the plasma membrane. The protein encoded by this gene is thought to be a scaffolding protein involved in organizing the presynaptic cytoskeleton. The gene is expressed primarily in neurons in the brain. A similar gene product in rodents is concentrated in the active zone of axon terminals and tightly associated with cytoskeletal structures, and is essential for regulating neurotransmitter release from a subset of synapses. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BSN (Bassoon Presynaptic Cytomatrix Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Neuroscience. An important paralog of this gene is PCLO.	Is thought to be involved in the organization of the cytomatrix at the nerve terminals active zone (CAZ) which regulates neurotransmitter release. Seems to act through binding to ERC2/CAST1. Essential in regulated neurotransmitter release from a subset of brain glutamatergic synapses. Involved in the formation of the retinal photoreceptor ribbon synapses (By similarity).	same
BSX	empty	BSX (Brain-Specific Homeobox) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BSX include jacobsen syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and sequence-specific DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is DLX5.	DNA binding protein that function as transcriptional activator. Is essentiel for normal postnatal growth and nursing. Is an essential factor for neuronal neuropeptide Y and agouti-related peptide function and locomotory behavior in the control of energy balance (By similarity).	same
BST2	Bone marrow stromal cells are involved in the growth and development of B-cells. The specific function of the protein encoded by the bone marrow stromal cell antigen 2 is undetermined; however, this protein may play a role in pre-B-cell growth and in rheumatoid arthritis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BST2 (Bone Marrow Stromal Cell Antigen 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BST2 include west nile encephalitis and rheumatoid arthritis. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and metalloendopeptidase inhibitor activity.	IFN-induced antiviral host restriction factor which efficiently blocks the release of diverse mammalian enveloped viruses by directly tethering nascent virions to the membranes of infected cells. Acts as a direct physical tether, holding virions to the cell membrane and linking virions to each other. The tethered virions can be internalized by endocytosis and subsequently degraded or they can remain on the cell surface. In either case, their spread as cell-free virions is restricted. Its target viruses belong to diverse families, including retroviridae: human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1), human immunodeficiency virus type 2 (HIV-2), simian immunodeficiency viruses (SIVs), equine infectious anemia virus (EIAV), feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV), prototype foamy virus (PFV), Mason-Pfizer monkey virus (MPMV), human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1), Rous sarcoma virus (RSV) and murine leukemia virus (MLV), flavivirideae: hepatitis C virus (HCV), filoviridae: ebola virus (EBOV) and marburg virus (MARV), arenaviridae: lassa virus (LASV) and machupo virus (MACV), herpesviridae: kaposis sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV), rhabdoviridae: vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV), orthomyxoviridae: influenza A virus, and paramyxoviridae: nipah virus. Can inhibit cell surface proteolytic activity of MMP14 causing decreased activation of MMP15 which results in inhibition of cell growth and migration. Can stimulate signaling by LILRA4/ILT7 and consequently provide negative feedback to the production of IFN by plasmacytoid dendritic cells in response to viral infection. Plays a role in the organization of the subapical actin cytoskeleton in polarized epithelial cells. Isoform 1 and isoform 2 are both effective viral restriction factors but have differing antiviral and signaling activities. Isoform 2 is resistant to HIV-1 Vpu-mediated degradation and restricts HIV-1 viral budding in the presence of Vpu. Isoform 1 acts as an activator of NF-kappa-B and this activity is inhibited by isoform 2.	same
BSPRY	empty	BSPRY (B-Box And SPRY Domain Containing) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is SPRYD4.	May regulate epithelial calcium transport by inhibiting TRPV5 activity.	same
BTAF1	This gene encodes a TAF (TATA box-binding protein-associated factor), which associates with TBP (TATA box-binding protein) to form the B-TFIID complex that is required for transcription initiation of genes by RNA polymerase II. This TAF has DNA-dependent ATPase activity, which drives the dissociation of TBP from DNA, freeing the TBP to associate with other TATA boxes or TATA-less promoters. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]	BTAF1 (BTAF1 RNA Polymerase II, B-TFIID Transcription Factor-Associated, 170kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Chromatin Regulation / Acetylation. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ZRANB3.	Regulates transcription in association with TATA binding protein (TBP). Removes TBP from the TATA box in an ATP-dependent manner	same
BTBD16	empty	BTBD16 (BTB (POZ) Domain Containing 16) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is GMCL1.	empty	same
BTBD18	empty	BTBD18 (BTB (POZ) Domain Containing 18) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
BRPF3	empty	BRPF3 (Bromodomain And PHD Finger Containing, 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Hemostasis and Hemostasis. An important paralog of this gene is PHF14.	Component of the MOZ/MORF complex which has a histone H3 acetyltransferase activity.	same
BTBD19	empty	BTBD19 (BTB (POZ) Domain Containing 19) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is BTBD9.	empty	same
BTBD11	empty	BTBD11 (BTB (POZ) Domain Containing 11) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein heterodimerization activity. An important paralog of this gene is ABTB2.	empty	same
BTBD17	empty	BTBD17 (BTB (POZ) Domain Containing 17) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is LGALS3BP.	empty	same
BTBD10	empty	BTBD10 (BTB (POZ) Domain Containing 10) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BTBD10 include nemaline myopathy 9. An important paralog of this gene is KCTD20.	Plays a major role as an activator of AKT family members by inhibiting PPP2CA-mediated dephosphorylation, thereby keeping AKTs activated. Plays a role in preventing motor neuronal death and accelerating the growth of pancreatic beta cells.	same
BSDC1	empty	BSDC1 (BSD Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
BTBD1	The C-terminus of the protein encoded by this gene binds topoisomerase I. The N-terminus contains a proline-rich region and a BTB/POZ domain (broad-complex, Tramtrack and bric a brac/Pox virus and Zinc finger), both of which are typically involved in protein-protein interactions. Subcellularly, the protein localizes to cytoplasmic bodies. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BTBD1 (BTB (POZ) Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BTBD1 include hepatitis c and hepatitis c virus. An important paralog of this gene is BTBD9.	Probable substrate-specific adapter of an E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex which mediates the ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of target proteins.	same
BTBD7	empty	BTBD7 (BTB (POZ) Domain Containing 7) is a Protein Coding gene.	Acts as a mediator of epithelial dynamics and organ branching by promoting cleft progression. Induced following accumulation of fibronectin in forming clefts, leading to local expression of the cell-scattering SNAIL2 and suppression of E-cadherin levels, thereby altering cell morphology and reducing cell-cell adhesion. This stimulates cell separation at the base of forming clefts by local, dynamic intercellular gap formation and promotes cleft progression (By similarity).	same
BTBD2	The C-terminus of the protein encoded by this gene binds topoisomerase I. The N-terminus contains a proline-rich region and a BTB/POZ domain (broad-complex, Tramtrack and bric a brac/Pox virus and Zinc finger), both of which are typically involved in protein-protein interactions. Subcellularly, the protein localizes to cytoplasmic bodies. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BTBD2 (BTB (POZ) Domain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is BTBD9.	empty	same
BTBD8	empty	BTBD8 (BTB (POZ) Domain Containing 8) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
BTF3L4	empty	BTF3L4 (Basic Transcription Factor 3-Like 4) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is BTF3.	empty	same
BTC	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the EGF family of growth factors. It is synthesized primarily as a transmembrane precursor, which is then processed to mature molecule by proteolytic events. This protein is a ligand for the EGF receptor. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BTC (Betacellulin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BTC include endometrial cancer and pancreatic cancer. Among its related pathways are PI-3K cascade and PI-3K cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include growth factor activity and epidermal growth factor receptor binding. An important paralog of this gene is TGFA.	Growth factor that binds to EGFR, ERBB4 and other EGF receptor family members. Potent mitogen for retinal pigment epithelial cells and vascular smooth muscle cells.	same
BTBD12	This gene encodes a structure-specific endonuclease subunit. The encoded protein contains a central BTB domain and it forms a multiprotein complex with the ERCC4(XPF)-ERCC1, MUS81-EME1, and SLX1 endonucleases, and also associates with MSH2/MSH3 mismatch repair complex, telomere binding complex TERF2(TRF2)-TERF2IP(RAP1), the protein kinase PLK1 and the uncharacterized protein C20orf94. The multiprotein complex is required for repair of specific types of DNA lesions and is critical for cellular responses to replication fork failure. The encoded protein acts as a docking platform for the assembly of multiple structure-specific endonucleases.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]	SLX4 (SLX4 Structure-Specific Endonuclease Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with SLX4 include fanconi anemia, complementation group p and slx4-related fanconi anemia. Among its related pathways are Fanconi anemia pathway (KEGG). GO annotations related to this gene include enzyme activator activity and crossover junction endodeoxyribonuclease activity.	Regulatory subunit that interacts with and increases the activity of different structure-specific endonucleases. Has several distinct roles in protecting genome stability by resolving diverse forms of deleterious DNA structures originating from replication and recombination intermediates and from DNA damage. Component of the SLX1-SLX4 structure-specific endonuclease that resolves DNA secondary structures generated during DNA repair and recombination. Has endonuclease activity towards branched DNA substrates, introducing single-strand cuts in duplex DNA close to junctions with ss-DNA. Has a preference for 5-flap structures, and promotes symmetrical cleavage of static and migrating Holliday junctions (HJs). Resolves HJs by generating two pairs of ligatable, nicked duplex products. Interacts with the structure-specific ERCC4-ERCC1 endonuclease and promotes the cleavage of bubble structures. Interacts with the structure-specific MUS81-EME1 endonuclease and promotes the cleavage of 3-flap and replication fork-like structures. SLX4 is required for recovery from alkylation-induced DNA damage and is involved in the resolution of DNA double-strand breaks.	diff
BTG2	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the BTG/Tob family. This family has structurally related proteins that appear to have antiproliferative properties. This encoded protein is involved in the regulation of the G1/S transition of the cell cycle. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BTG2 (BTG Family, Member 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Spinal Cord Injury and Direct p53 effectors. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA polymerase II core promoter proximal region sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity involved in positive regulation of transcription. An important paralog of this gene is TOB1.	Anti-proliferative protein; the function is mediated by association with deadenylase subunits of the CCR4-NOT complex. Activates mRNA deadenylation in a CNOT6 and CNOT7-dependent manner. In vitro can inhibit deadenylase activity of CNOT7 and CNOT8. Involved in cell cycle regulation. Could be involved in the growth arrest and differentiation of the neuronal precursors (By similarity). Modulates transcription regulation mediated by ESR1. Involved in mitochondrial depolarization and neurite outgrowth.	same
BTF3	This gene encodes the basic transcription factor 3. This protein forms a stable complex with RNA polymerase IIB and is required for transcriptional initiation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. This gene has multiple pseudogenes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BTF3 (Basic Transcription Factor 3) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is BTF3L4.	When associated with NACA, prevents inappropriate targeting of non-secretory polypeptides to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Binds to nascent polypeptide chains as they emerge from the ribosome and blocks their interaction with the signal recognition particle (SRP), which normally targets nascent secretory peptides to the ER. BTF3 is also a general transcription factor that can form a stable complex with RNA polymerase II. Required for the initiation of transcription.	same
BTG3	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the BTG/Tob family. This family has structurally related proteins that appear to have antiproliferative properties. This encoded protein might play a role in neurogenesis in the central nervous system. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]	BTG3 (BTG Family, Member 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Deadenylation-dependent mRNA decay. An important paralog of this gene is TOB1.	Overexpression impairs serum-induced cell cycle progression from the G0/G1 to S phase	same
BTD	The protein encoded by this gene functions to recycle protein-bound biotin by cleaving biocytin (biotin-epsilon-lysine), a normal product of carboxylase degradation, resulting in regeneration of free biotin. The encoded protein has also been shown to have biotinyl transferase activity. Mutations in this gene are associated with biotinidase deficiency. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2013]	BTD (Biotinidase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BTD include biotinidase deficiency and biotin deficiency. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include biotin carboxylase activity and biotinidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is VNN2.	Catalytic release of biotin from biocytin, the product of biotin-dependent carboxylases degradation	same
BTG4	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the BTG/Tob family. This family has structurally related proteins that appear to have antiproliferative properties. This encoded protein can induce G1 arrest in the cell cycle. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BTG4 (B-Cell Translocation Gene 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Deadenylation-dependent mRNA decay. An important paralog of this gene is TOB1.	Shows marked antiproliferative activity, being able to induce G(1) arrest	same
BTLA	This gene encodes a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily. The encoded protein contains a single immunoglobulin (Ig) domain and is a receptor that relays inhibitory signals to suppress the immune response. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Polymorphisms in this gene have been associated with an increased risk of rheumatoid arthritis. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	BTLA (B And T Lymphocyte Associated) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BTLA include subacute sclerosing panencephalitis and rheumatoid arthritis. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and CD28 co-stimulation. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor activity.	Lymphocyte inhibitory receptor which inhibits lymphocytes during immune response.	same
BTN1A1	Butyrophilin is the major protein associated with fat droplets in the milk. It is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily. It may have a cell surface receptor function. The human butyrophilin gene is localized in the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I region of 6p and may have arisen relatively recently in evolution by the shuffling of exons between 2 ancestral gene families [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BTN1A1 (Butyrophilin, Subfamily 1, Member A1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is BTNL9.	May function in the secretion of milk-fat droplets. May act as a specific membrane-associated receptor for the association of cytoplasmic droplets with the apical plasma membrane (By similarity). Inhibits the proliferation of CD4 and CD8 T-cells activated by anti-CD3 antibodies, T-cell metabolism and IL2 and IFNG secretion (By similarity).	same
BTN2A1	This gene encodes a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily. The gene is located in a cluster of butyrophilin-like genes in the juxta-telomeric region of the major histocompatibility complex on chromosome 6. A pseudogene of this gene has been identified in this cluster. The encoded protein is an integral plasma membrane protein involved in lipid, fatty-acid, and sterol metabolism. Alterations in this gene may be associated with several disease states including metabolic syndrome. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]	BTN2A1 (Butyrophilin, Subfamily 2, Member A1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is BTNL9.	empty	same
BTN3A1	The butyrophilin (BTN) genes are a group of major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-associated genes that encode type I membrane proteins with 2 extracellular immunoglobulin (Ig) domains and an intracellular B30.2 (PRYSPRY) domain. Three subfamilies of human BTN genes are located in the MHC class I region: the single-copy BTN1A1 gene (MIM 601610) and the BTN2 (e.g., BTN2A1; MIM 613590) and BTN3 (e.g., BNT3A1) genes, which have undergone tandem duplication, resulting in 3 copies of each (summary by Smith et al., 2010 [PubMed 20208008]).[supplied by OMIM, Nov 2010]	BTN3A1 (Butyrophilin, Subfamily 3, Member A1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is BTNL9.	Plays a role in T-cell activation and in the adaptive immune response. Regulates the proliferation of activated T-cells. Regulates the release of cytokines and IFNG by activated T-cells. Mediates the response of T-cells toward infected and transformed cells that are characterized by high levels of phosphorylated metabolites, such as isopentenyl pyrophosphate.	same
BTN3A3	The butyrophilin (BTN) genes are a group of major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-associated genes that encode type I membrane proteins with 2 extracellular immunoglobulin (Ig) domains and an intracellular B30.2 (PRYSPRY) domain. Three subfamilies of human BTN genes are located in the MHC class I region: the single-copy BTN1A1 gene (MIM 601610) and the BTN2 (e.g., BTN2A1; MIM 613590) and BTN3 (e.g., BNT3A3) genes, which have undergone tandem duplication, resulting in 3 copies of each (summary by Smith et al., 2010 [PubMed 20208008]).[supplied by OMIM, Nov 2010]	BTN3A3 (Butyrophilin, Subfamily 3, Member A3) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is BTNL9.	Plays a role in T-cell responses in the adaptive immune response.	same
BTN3A2	This gene encodes a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily, which resides in the juxta-telomeric region of the major histocompatability class 1 locus and is clustered with the other family members on chromosome 6. The encoded protein may be involved in the adaptive immune response. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2013]	BTN3A2 (Butyrophilin, Subfamily 3, Member A2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is BTNL9.	Plays a role in T-cell responses in the adaptive immune response. Inhibits the release of IFNG from activated T-cells.	same
BTN2A2	Butyrophilin is the major protein associated with fat droplets in the milk. This gene is a member of the BTN2 subfamily of genes, which encode proteins belonging to the butyrophilin protein family. The gene is located in a cluster on chromosome 6, consisting of seven genes belonging to the expanding B7/butyrophilin-like group, a subset of the immunoglobulin gene superfamily. The encoded protein is a type I receptor glycoprotein involved in lipid, fatty-acid and sterol metabolism. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]	BTN2A2 (Butyrophilin, Subfamily 2, Member A2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is BTNL9.	Inhibits the proliferation of CD4 and CD8 T-cells activated by anti-CD3 antibodies, T-cell metabolism and IL2 and IFNG secretion.	same
BTN2A3	The butyrophilin (BTN) genes are a group of major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-associated genes that encode type I membrane proteins with 2 extracellular immunoglobulin (Ig) domains and an intracellular B30.2 (PRYSPRY) domain. Three subfamilies of human BTN genes are located in the MHC class I region: the single-copy BTN1A1 gene (MIM 601610) and the BTN2 (e.g., BTN2A3) and BTN3 (e.g., BNT3A1; MIM 613593) genes, which have undergone tandem duplication, resulting in 3 copies of each (summary by Smith et al., 2010 [PubMed 20208008]).[supplied by OMIM, Nov 2010]	BTN2A3P (Butyrophilin, Subfamily 2, Member A3, Pseudogene) is a Pseudogene.	empty	diff
BTNL2	empty	BTNL2 (Butyrophilin-Like 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BTNL2 include sarcoidosis 2 and sarcoidosis 1. An important paralog of this gene is BTNL9.	Negative regulator of T-cell proliferation.	same
BTBD6	empty	BTBD6 (BTB (POZ) Domain Containing 6) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is BTBD9.	Adapter protein for the CUL3 E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex. Involved in late neuronal development and muscle formation (By similarity).	same
BTNL8	empty	BTNL8 (Butyrophilin-Like 8) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is BTNL9.	May stimulate primary immune response. Acts on T-cell stimulated sub-optimally through the TCR/CD3 complex stimulating their proliferation and cytokine production.	same
BTNL3	empty	BTNL3 (Butyrophilin-Like 3) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is BTNL9.	empty	same
BTG1	This gene is a member of an anti-proliferative gene family that regulates cell growth and differentiation. Expression of this gene is highest in the G0/G1 phases of the cell cycle and downregulated when cells progressed through G1. The encoded protein interacts with several nuclear receptors, and functions as a coactivator of cell differentiation. This locus has been shown to be involved in a t(8;12)(q24;q22) chromosomal translocation in a case of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]	BTG1 (B-Cell Translocation Gene 1, Anti-Proliferative) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BTG1 include chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Among its related pathways are Diurnally regulated genes with circadian orthologs and Deadenylation-dependent mRNA decay. GO annotations related to this gene include enzyme binding and kinase binding. An important paralog of this gene is TOB1.	Anti-proliferative protein.	same
BUB1B	This gene encodes a kinase involved in spindle checkpoint function. The protein has been localized to the kinetochore and plays a role in the inhibition of the anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C), delaying the onset of anaphase and ensuring proper chromosome segregation. Impaired spindle checkpoint function has been found in many forms of cancer. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BUB1B (BUB1 Mitotic Checkpoint Serine/Threonine Kinase B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BUB1B include mosaic variegated aneuploidy syndrome 1 and premature chromatid separation trait. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and protein kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is BUB1.	Essential component of the mitotic checkpoint. Required for normal mitosis progression. The mitotic checkpoint delays anaphase until all chromosomes are properly attached to the mitotic spindle. One of its checkpoint functions is to inhibit the activity of the anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C) by blocking the binding of CDC20 to APC/C, independently of its kinase activity. The other is to monitor kinetochore activities that depend on the kinetochore motor CENPE. Required for kinetochore localization of CENPE. Negatively regulates PLK1 activity in interphase cells and suppresses centrosome amplification. Also implicated in triggering apoptosis in polyploid cells that exit aberrantly from mitotic arrest. May play a role for tumor suppression.	same
BUB1	This gene encodes a serine/threonine-protein kinase that play a central role in mitosis. The encoded protein functions in part by phosphorylating members of the mitotic checkpoint complex and activating the spindle checkpoint. This protein also plays a role in inhibiting the activation of the anaphase promoting complex/cyclosome. This protein may also function in the DNA damage response. Mutations in this gene have been associated with aneuploidy and several forms of cancer. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]	BUB1 (BUB1 Mitotic Checkpoint Serine/Threonine Kinase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BUB1 include mosaic variegated aneuploidy syndrome and colorectal cancer. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and protein kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is BUB1B.	Serine/threonine-protein kinase that performs 2 crucial functions during mitosis: it is essential for spindle-assembly checkpoint signaling and for correct chromosome alignment. Has a key role in the assembly of checkpoint proteins at the kinetochore, being required for the subsequent localization of CENPF, BUB1B, CENPE and MAD2L1. Required for the kinetochore localization of PLK1. Plays an important role in defining SGOL1 localization and thereby affects sister chromatid cohesion. Acts as a substrate for anaphase-promoting complex or cyclosome (APC/C) in complex with its activator CDH1 (APC/C-Cdh1). Necessary for ensuring proper chromosome segregation and binding to BUB3 is essential for this function. Can regulate chromosome segregation in a kinetochore-independent manner. Can phosphorylate BUB3. The BUB1-BUB3 complex plays a role in the inhibition of APC/C when spindle-assembly checkpoint is activated and inhibits the ubiquitin ligase activity of APC/C by phosphorylating its activator CDC20. This complex can also phosphorylate MAD1L1. Kinase activity is essential for inhibition of APC/CCDC20 and for chromosome alignment but does not play a major role in the spindle-assembly checkpoint activity. Mediates cell death in response to chromosome missegregation and acts to suppress spontaneous tumorigenesis.	same
BTBD9	This locus encodes a BTB/POZ domain-containing protein. This domain is known to be involved in protein-protein interactions. Polymorphisms at this locus have been reported to be associated with susceptibility to Restless Legs Syndrome and may also be associated with Tourette Syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	BTBD9 (BTB (POZ) Domain Containing 9) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BTBD9 include restless legs syndrome. An important paralog of this gene is BTBD1.	empty	same
BTNL9	empty	BTNL9 (Butyrophilin-Like 9) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is BTNL8.	empty	same
BUD13	empty	BUD13 (BUD13 Homolog (S. Cerevisiae)) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
BTRC	This gene encodes a member of the F-box protein family which is characterized by an approximately 40 amino acid motif, the F-box. The F-box proteins constitute one of the four subunits of ubiquitin protein ligase complex called SCFs (SKP1-cullin-F-box), which function in phosphorylation-dependent ubiquitination. The F-box proteins are divided into 3 classes: Fbws containing WD-40 domains, Fbls containing leucine-rich repeats, and Fbxs containing either different protein-protein interaction modules or no recognizable motifs. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Fbws class; in addition to an F-box, this protein contains multiple WD-40 repeats. The encoded protein mediates degradation of CD4 via its interaction with HIV-1 Vpu. It has also been shown to ubiquitinate phosphorylated NFKBIA (nuclear factor of kappa light polypeptide gene enhancer in B-cells inhibitor, alpha), targeting it for degradation and thus activating nuclear factor kappa-B. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. A related pseudogene exists in chromosome 6. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]	BTRC (Beta-Transducin Repeat Containing E3 Ubiquitin Protein Ligase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BTRC include split hand foot malformation and cerebellar medulloblastoma. Among its related pathways are PI-3K cascade and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin-protein transferase activity and beta-catenin binding. An important paralog of this gene is ZNF106.	Substrate recognition component of a SCF (SKP1-CUL1-F-box protein) E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex which mediates the ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of target proteins. Recognizes and binds to phosphorylated target proteins. SCF(BTRC) mediates the ubiquitination of CTNNB1 and participates in Wnt signaling. SCF(BTRC) mediates the ubiquitination of NFKBIA, NFKBIB and NFKBIE; the degradation frees the associated NFKB1 to translocate into the nucleus and to activate transcription. Ubiquitination of NFKBIA occurs at Lys-21 and Lys-22. SCF(BTRC) mediates the ubiquitination of phosphorylated NFKB1/nuclear factor NF-kappa-B p105 subunit, ATF4, CDC25A, DLG1, FBXO5, PER1, SMAD3, SMAD4, SNAI1 and probably NFKB2. Has an essential role in the control of the clock-dependent transcription via degradation of phosphorylated PER1 and PER2. May be involved in ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation through a DBB1-CUL4 E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase. Required for activation of NFKB-mediated transcription by IL1B, MAP3K14, MAP3K1, IKBKB and TNF. Required for proteolytic processing of GLI3.	same
BVES	This gene encodes a member of the POP family of proteins containing three putative transmembrane domains. This gene is expressed in cardiac and skeletal muscle and may play an important role in development of these tissues. The mouse ortholog may be involved in the regeneration of adult skeletal muscle and may act as a cell adhesion molecule in coronary vasculogenesis. Three transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]	BVES (Blood Vessel Epicardial Substance) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are RNA transport and Ribosome biogenesis in eukaryotes. GO annotations related to this gene include structural molecule activity. An important paralog of this gene is POPDC3.	Cell adhesion molecule involved in the establishment and/or maintenance of cell integrity. Involved in the formation and regulation of the tight junction (TJ) paracellular permeability barrier in epithelial cells. Plays a role in VAMP3-mediated vesicular transport and recycling of different receptor molecules through its interaction with VAMP3. Plays a role in the regulation of cell shape and movement by modulating the Rho-family GTPase activity through its interaction with ARHGEF25/GEFT. Induces primordial adhesive contact and aggregation of epithelial cells in a Ca(2+)-independent manner. Also involved in striated muscle regeneration and repair and in the regulation of cell spreading.	same
BTK	The protein encoded by this gene plays a crucial role in B-cell development. Mutations in this gene cause X-linked agammaglobulinemia type 1, which is an immunodeficiency characterized by the failure to produce mature B lymphocytes, and associated with a failure of Ig heavy chain rearrangement. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2013]	BTK (Bruton Agammaglobulinemia Tyrosine Kinase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BTK include agammaglobulinemia, x-linked 1 and agammaglobulinemia and isolated hormone deficiency. Among its related pathways are PI-3K cascade and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and non-membrane spanning protein tyrosine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is FER.	Non-receptor tyrosine kinase indispensable for B lymphocyte development, differentiation and signaling. Binding of antigen to the B-cell antigen receptor (BCR) triggers signaling that ultimately leads to B-cell activation. After BCR engagement and activation at the plasma membrane, phosphorylates PLCG2 at several sites, igniting the downstream signaling pathway through calcium mobilization, followed by activation of the protein kinase C (PKC) family members. PLCG2 phosphorylation is performed in close cooperation with the adapter protein B-cell linker protein BLNK. BTK acts as a platform to bring together a diverse array of signaling proteins and is implicated in cytokine receptor signaling pathways. Plays an important role in the function of immune cells of innate as well as adaptive immunity, as a component of the Toll-like receptors (TLR) pathway. The TLR pathway acts as a primary surveillance system for the detection of pathogens and are crucial to the activation of host defense. Especially, is a critical molecule in regulating TLR9 activation in splenic B-cells. Within the TLR pathway, induces tyrosine phosphorylation of TIRAP which leads to TIRAP degradation. BTK plays also a critical role in transcription regulation. Induces the activity of NF-kappa-B, which is involved in regulating the expression of hundreds of genes. BTK is involved on the signaling pathway linking TLR8 and TLR9 to NF-kappa-B. Transiently phosphorylates transcription factor GTF2I on tyrosine residues in response to BCR. GTF2I then translocates to the nucleus to bind regulatory enhancer elements to modulate gene expression. ARID3A and NFAT are other transcriptional target of BTK. BTK is required for the formation of functional ARID3A DNA-binding complexes. There is however no evidence that BTK itself binds directly to DNA. BTK has a dual role in the regulation of apoptosis.	same
BYSL	Bystin is expressed as a 2-kb major transcript and a 3.6-kb minor transcript in SNG-M cells and in human trophoblastic teratocarcinoma HT-H cells. Protein binding assays determined that bystin binds directly to trophinin and tastin, and that binding is enhanced when cytokeratins 8 and 18 are present. Immunocytochemistry of HT-H cells showed that bystin colocalizes with trophinin, tastin, and the cytokeratins, suggesting that these molecules form a complex in trophectoderm cells at the time of implantation. Using immunohistochemistry it was determined that trophinin and bystin are found in the placenta from the sixth week of pregnancy. Both proteins were localized in the cytoplasm of the syncytiotrophoblast in the chorionic villi and in endometrial decidual cells at the uteroplacental interface. After week 10, the levels of trophinin, tastin, and bystin decreased and then disappeared from placental villi. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BYSL (Bystin-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BYSL include teratocarcinoma.	Required for processing of 20S pre-rRNA precursor and biogenesis of 40S ribosomal subunits. May be required for trophinin-dependent regulation of cell adhesion during implantation of human embryos.	same
BUB3	This gene encodes a protein involved in spindle checkpoint function. The encoded protein contains four WD repeat domains and has sequence similarity with the yeast BUB3 protein. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BUB3 (BUB3 Mitotic Checkpoint Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BUB3 include mosaic variegated aneuploidy syndrome. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. An important paralog of this gene is RAE1.	Has a dual function in spindle-assembly checkpoint signaling and in promoting the establishment of correct kinetochore-microtubule (K-MT) attachments. Promotes the formation of stable end-on bipolar attachments. Necessary for kinetochore localization of BUB1. Regulates chromosome segregation during oocyte meiosis. The BUB1/BUB3 complex plays a role in the inhibition of anaphase-promoting complex or cyclosome (APC/C) when spindle-assembly checkpoint is activated and inhibits the ubiquitin ligase activity of APC/C by phosphorylating its activator CDC20. This complex can also phosphorylate MAD1L1.	same
BUD31	empty	BUD31 (BUD31 Homolog (S. Cerevisiae)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency and Actin Nucleation by ARP-WASP Complex. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity.	empty	same
BZRAP1	empty	BZRAP1 (Benzodiazepine Receptor (Peripheral) Associated Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include benzodiazepine receptor binding. An important paralog of this gene is RIMBP3C.	empty	same
C10orf108	empty	PRR26 (Proline Rich 26) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the ncRNA class.	empty	diff
BZW2	empty	BZW2 (Basic Leucine Zipper And W2 Domains 2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is BZW1.	May be involved in neuronal differentiation.	same
C10orf10	The expression of this gene is induced by fasting as well as by progesterone. The protein encoded by this gene contains a t-synaptosome-associated protein receptor (SNARE) coiled-coil homology domain and a peroxisomal targeting signal. Production of the encoded protein leads to phosphorylation and activation of the transcription factor ELK1. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	C10orf10 (Chromosome 10 Open Reading Frame 10) is a Protein Coding gene.	May play a role in autophagy.	same
BZW1	empty	BZW1 (Basic Leucine Zipper And W2 Domains 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BZW1 include phlebotomus fever. An important paralog of this gene is BZW2.	Enhances histone H4 gene transcription but does not seem to bind DNA directly.	same
C10orf113	empty	C10orf113 (Chromosome 10 Open Reading Frame 113) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C10orf11	This gene encodes a leucine-rich repeat protein. The encoded protein is thought to play a role in melanocyte differentiation. Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal recessive oculocutaneous albinism 7 (OCA7). Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2015]	C10orf11 (Chromosome 10 Open Reading Frame 11) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C10orf11 include albinism, oculocutaneous, type vii and oculocutaneous albinism.	Required for melanocyte differentiation.	same
C10orf120	empty	C10orf120 (Chromosome 10 Open Reading Frame 120) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C10orf122	empty	TEX36 (Testis Expressed 36) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C10orf119	This gene encodes a protein which is a component of the hexameric minichromosome maintenance (MCM) complex which regulates initiation and elongation of DNA. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]	MCMBP (Minichromosome Maintenance Complex Binding Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include chromatin binding.	Associated component of the MCM complex that acts as a regulator of DNA replication. Binds to the MCM complex during late S phase and promotes the disassembly of the MCM complex from chromatin, thereby acting as a key regulator of pre-replication complex (pre-RC) unloading from replicated DNA. Can dissociate the MCM complex without addition of ATP; probably acts by destabilizing interactions of each individual subunits of the MCM complex. Required for sister chromatid cohesion.	diff
C10orf111	empty	C10orf111 (Chromosome 10 Open Reading Frame 111) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C10orf107	empty	C10orf107 (Chromosome 10 Open Reading Frame 107) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C10orf125	empty	FUOM (Fucose Mutarotase) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include fucose binding and racemase and epimerase activity, acting on carbohydrates and derivatives.	Involved in the interconversion between alpha- and beta-L-fucoses. L-Fucose (6-deoxy-L-galactose) exists as alpha-L-fucose (29.5%) and beta-L-fucose (70.5%), the beta-form is metabolized through the salvage pathway. GDP-L-fucose formed either by the de novo or salvage pathways is transported into the endoplasmic reticulum, where it serves as a substrate for N- and O-glycosylations by fucosyltransferases. Fucosylated structures expressed on cell surfaces or secreted in biological fluids are believed to play a critical role in cell-cell adhesion and recognition processes.	diff
C10orf128	empty	C10orf128 (Chromosome 10 Open Reading Frame 128) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C10orf105	empty	C10orf105 (Chromosome 10 Open Reading Frame 105) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C10orf129	empty	ACSM6 (Acyl-CoA Synthetase Medium-Chain Family Member 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are stearate biosynthesis I (animals) and stearate biosynthesis I (animals). An important paralog of this gene is ACSM2B.	empty	diff
C10orf110	empty	IDI2-AS1 (IDI2 Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class.	empty	diff
C10orf114	empty	CASC10 (Cancer Susceptibility Candidate 10) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C10orf118	empty	CCDC186 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 186) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C10orf18	empty	FAM208B (Family With Sequence Similarity 208, Member B) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is FAM208A.	empty	diff
C10orf140	empty	SKIDA1 (SKI/DACH Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleotide binding.	empty	diff
C10orf25	empty	C10orf25 (Chromosome 10 Open Reading Frame 25) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C10orf25 include alzheimer disease.	empty	same
C10orf131	empty	C10orf131 (Chromosome 10 Open Reading Frame 131) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000269948.	empty	same
C10orf137	This gene may play a role in erythroid cell differentiation. The encoded protein inhibits DNA binding of the erythroid transcription factor GATA-1 and may regulate the expression of alpha-globin and gamma-globin. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2014]	EDRF1 (Erythroid Differentiation Regulatory Factor 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	Transcription factor involved in erythroid differentiation. Involved in transcriptional activation of the globin gene.	diff
C10orf26	empty	WBP1L (WW Domain Binding Protein 1-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with WBP1L include acute leukemia. An important paralog of this gene is WBP1.	empty	diff
C10orf32	empty	C10orf32 (Chromosome 10 Open Reading Frame 32) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is C10orf32-ASMT.	empty	same
C10orf27	empty	TBATA (Thymus, Brain And Testes Associated) is a Protein Coding gene.	May play a role in spermatid differentiation. Modulates thymic stromal cell proliferation and thymus function.	diff
BTF3L1	empty	BTF3P11 (Basic Transcription Factor 3 Pseudogene 11) is a Pseudogene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class. Among its related pathways are PEDF Induced Signaling and Osteoblast Signaling.	empty	diff
C10orf12	empty	C10orf12 (Chromosome 10 Open Reading Frame 12) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C10orf2	This gene encodes a hexameric DNA helicase which unwinds short stretches of double-stranded DNA in the 5' to 3' direction and, along with mitochondrial single-stranded DNA binding protein and mtDNA polymerase gamma, is thought to play a key role in mtDNA replication. The protein localizes to the mitochondrial matrix and mitochondrial nucleoids. Mutations in this gene cause infantile onset spinocerebellar ataxia (IOSCA) and progressive external ophthalmoplegia (PEO) and are also associated with several mitochondrial depletion syndromes. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2009]	C10orf2 (Chromosome 10 Open Reading Frame 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C10orf2 include mitochondrial dna depletion syndrome 7 and perrault syndrome 5. Among its related pathways are Akt Signaling and CDK-mediated phosphorylation and removal of Cdc6. GO annotations related to this gene include single-stranded DNA binding and 5-3 DNA helicase activity.	Involved in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) metabolism. Could function as an adenine nucleotide-dependent DNA helicase. Function inferred to be critical for lifetime maintenance of mtDNA integrity. In vitro, forms in combination with POLG, a processive replication machinery, which can use double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) as template to synthesize single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) molecules. May be a key regulator of mtDNA copy number in mammals.	same
C10orf40	empty	LINC01553 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 1553) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class.	empty	diff
C10orf46	empty	CACUL1 (CDK2-Associated, Cullin Domain 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and ubiquitin protein ligase binding.	Cell cycle associated protein capable of promoting cell proliferation through the activation of CDK2 at the G1/S phase transition.	diff
C10orf116	APM2 gene is exclusively expressed in adipose tissue. Its function is currently unknown. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADIRF (Adipogenesis Regulatory Factor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADIRF include obesity.	Plays a role in fat cell development; promotes adipogenic differentiation and stimulates transcription initiation of master adipogenesis factors like PPARG and CEBPA at early stages of preadipocyte differentiation. Its overexpression confers resistance to the anticancer chemotherapeutic drug cisplatin.	diff
C10orf47	empty	PROSER2 (Proline And Serine Rich 2) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C10orf4	empty	empty	empty	same
C10orf50	empty	empty	empty	same
C10orf55	empty	C10orf55 (Chromosome 10 Open Reading Frame 55) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C10orf53	empty	C10orf53 (Chromosome 10 Open Reading Frame 53) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C10orf62	empty	C10orf62 (Chromosome 10 Open Reading Frame 62) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C10orf58	empty	FAM213A (Family With Sequence Similarity 213, Member A) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include antioxidant activity. An important paralog of this gene is FAM213B.	Involved in redox regulation of the cell. Acts as an antioxidant. Inhibits TNFSF11-induced NFKB1 and JUN activation and osteoclast differentiation. May affect bone resorption and help to maintain bone mass.	diff
C10orf28	empty	R3HCC1L (R3H Domain And Coiled-Coil Containing 1-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleotide binding. An important paralog of this gene is R3HCC1.	empty	diff
C10orf67	empty	C10orf67 (Chromosome 10 Open Reading Frame 67) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C10orf57	empty	TMEM254 (Transmembrane Protein 254) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C10orf71	empty	C10orf71 (Chromosome 10 Open Reading Frame 71) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C10orf41	empty	ZNF503-AS2 (ZNF503 Antisense RNA 2) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class.	empty	diff
C10orf72	empty	VSTM4 (V-Set And Transmembrane Domain Containing 4) is a Protein Coding gene.	Peptide Lv enhances L-type voltage-gated calcium channel (L-VGCC) currents in retinal photoreceptors.	diff
C10orf68	empty	CCDC7 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 7) is a Protein Coding gene.	May play a role in tumorigenesis.	diff
C10orf54	empty	C10orf54 (Chromosome 10 Open Reading Frame 54) is a Protein Coding gene.	May stimulate MMP14-mediated MMP2 activation.	same
C10orf75	empty	OLMALINC (Oligodendrocyte Maturation-Associated Long Intergenic Non-Coding RNA) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class.	empty	diff
C10orf35	empty	C10orf35 (Chromosome 10 Open Reading Frame 35) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C10orf35 include alzheimer disease.	empty	same
C10orf76	empty	C10orf76 (Chromosome 10 Open Reading Frame 76) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C10orf81	empty	PLEKHS1 (Pleckstrin Homology Domain Containing, Family S Member 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding.	empty	diff
C10orf78	empty	SFR1 (SWI5-Dependent Recombination Repair 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	Component of the SWI5-SFR1 complex, a complex required for double-strand break repair via homologous recombination.	diff
C10orf88	empty	C10orf88 (Chromosome 10 Open Reading Frame 88) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding.	empty	same
C10orf84	empty	FAM204A (Family With Sequence Similarity 204, Member A) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C10orf82	empty	C10orf82 (Chromosome 10 Open Reading Frame 82) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C10orf90	empty	C10orf90 (Chromosome 10 Open Reading Frame 90) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include histone deacetylase binding.	Tumor suppressor that is required to sustain G2/M checkpoint after DNA damage. Mediates CDKN1A/p21 protein stability in a ubiquitin-independent manner (By similarity). May have a role in the assembly of primary cilia.	same
C10orf93	empty	CFAP46 (Cilia And Flagella Associated Protein 46) is a Protein Coding gene.	As part of the central apparatus of the cilium axoneme plays a role in cilium movement.	diff
C10orf95	empty	C10orf95 (Chromosome 10 Open Reading Frame 95) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C10orf99	empty	C10orf99 (Chromosome 10 Open Reading Frame 99) is a Protein Coding gene.	Potential cytokine proposed to be a ligand of SUSD2; can induce SUSD2 internalization upon binding. May be a tumor suppressor; together with SUSD2 has a growth inhibitory effect on colon cancer cells which includes G1 cell cycle arrest (PubMed:25351403). Specifically inhibits cell growth of lymphoblastoid Raji cell line (PubMed:25585381).	same
C10orf96	empty	CCDC172 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 172) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C11orf16	empty	C11orf16 (Chromosome 11 Open Reading Frame 16) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C11orf10	empty	TMEM258 (Transmembrane Protein 258) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C11orf2	empty	empty	empty	same
C11orf30	empty	C11orf30 (Chromosome 11 Open Reading Frame 30) is a Protein Coding gene.	Regulator which is able to repress transcription, possibly via its interaction with a multiprotein chromatin remodeling complex that modifies the chromatin. Its interaction with BRCA2 suggests that it may play a central role in the DNA repair function of BRCA2. As part of a histone H3-specific methyltransferase complex may mediate ligand-dependent transcriptional activation by nuclear hormone receptors.	same
C11orf20	empty	TEX40 (Testis Expressed 40) is a Protein Coding gene.	May be involved in late spermatogenesis.	diff
C11orf1	empty	C11orf1 (Chromosome 11 Open Reading Frame 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C11orf21	empty	C11orf21 (Chromosome 11 Open Reading Frame 21) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C11orf24	empty	C11orf24 (Chromosome 11 Open Reading Frame 24) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C11orf34	empty	PLET1 (Placenta Expressed Transcript 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	Modulates leading keratinocyte migration and cellular adhesion to matrix proteins during a wound-healing response and promotes wound repair. May play a role during trichilemmal differentiation of the hair follicle (By similarity).	diff
C10orf91	empty	C10orf91 (Chromosome 10 Open Reading Frame 91) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C11orf35	empty	LMNTD2 (Lamin Tail Domain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C11orf31	This gene encodes a selenoprotein, which contains a selenocysteine (Sec) residue at its active site. The selenocysteine is encoded by the UGA codon that normally signals translation termination. The 3' UTR of selenoprotein genes have a common stem-loop structure, the sec insertion sequence (SECIS), that is necessary for the recognition of UGA as a Sec codon rather than as a stop signal. The exact function of this gene is not known, however, selenoproteins are thought to be responsible for most biomedical effects of dietary selenium. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	C11orf31 (Chromosome 11 Open Reading Frame 31) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C11orf31 include staphyloenterotoxemia. Among its related pathways are Selenium Metabolism and Selenoproteins and Selenium Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include selenium binding.	May be involved in a redox-related process.	same
C11orf36	empty	MRGPRG-AS1 (MRGPRG Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class.	empty	diff
C11orf40	empty	C11orf40 (Chromosome 11 Open Reading Frame 40) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C11orf42	empty	C11orf42 (Chromosome 11 Open Reading Frame 42) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C10orf79	empty	CFAP43 (Cilia And Flagella Associated Protein 43) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C11orf48	empty	empty	empty	same
C11orf41	empty	KIAA1549L (KIAA1549-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Development VEGF signaling via VEGFR2 - generic cascades. An important paralog of this gene is KIAA1549.	empty	diff
C11orf17	empty	empty	empty	same
C11orf46	The protein encoded by this gene is an effector protein. It interacts with ADP-ribosylation factor-like 14 [ARL14, also known as ADP-ribosylation factor 7 (ARF7)], beta-actin (ACTB) and actin-based motor protein myosin 1E (MYO1E). ARL14 is a small GTPase; it controls the export of major histocompatibility class II molecules by connecting to the actin network via this effector protein. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	ARL14EP (ADP-Ribosylation Factor-Like 14 Effector Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ARL14EPL.	Through its interaction with ARL14 and MYO1E, may connect MHC class II-containing cytoplasmic vesicles to the actin network and hence controls the movement of these vesicles along the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic cells.	diff
C11orf45	empty	C11orf45 (Chromosome 11 Open Reading Frame 45) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C11orf51	empty	ANAPC15 (Anaphase Promoting Complex Subunit 15) is a Protein Coding gene.	Component of the anaphase promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C), a cell cycle-regulated E3 ubiquitin ligase that controls progression through mitosis and the G1 phase of the cell cycle. In the complex, plays a role in the release of the mitotic checkpoint complex (MCC) from the APC/C: not required for APC/C activity itself, but promotes the turnover of CDC20 and MCC on the APC/C, thereby participating in the responsiveness of the spindle assembly checkpoint. Also required for degradation of CDC20.	diff
C11orf53	empty	C11orf53 (Chromosome 11 Open Reading Frame 53) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C11orf49	empty	C11orf49 (Chromosome 11 Open Reading Frame 49) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C11orf52	empty	C11orf52 (Chromosome 11 Open Reading Frame 52) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are MAPK signaling pathway.	empty	same
C11orf57	empty	C11orf57 (Chromosome 11 Open Reading Frame 57) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C11orf54	empty	C11orf54 (Chromosome 11 Open Reading Frame 54) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrolase activity, acting on ester bonds.	Exhibits ester hydrolase activity on the substrate p-nitrophenyl acetate.	same
C11orf63	empty	C11orf63 (Chromosome 11 Open Reading Frame 63) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C11orf65	empty	C11orf65 (Chromosome 11 Open Reading Frame 65) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C11orf58	empty	C11orf58 (Chromosome 11 Open Reading Frame 58) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C11orf59	empty	LAMTOR1 (Late Endosomal/Lysosomal Adaptor, MAPK And MTOR Activator 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Translational Control. GO annotations related to this gene include guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity and protein complex scaffold.	As part of the Ragulator complex it is involved in amino acid sensing and activation of mTORC1, a signaling complex promoting cell growth in response to growth factors, energy levels, and amino acids. Activated by amino acids through a mechanism involving the lysosomal V-ATPase, the Ragulator functions as a guanine nucleotide exchange factor activating the small GTPases Rag. Activated Ragulator and Rag GTPases function as a scaffold recruiting mTORC1 to lysosomes where it is in turn activated. LAMTOR1 is directly responsible for anchoring the Ragulator complex to membranes. Also required for late endosomes/lysosomes biogenesis it may regulate both the recycling of receptors through endosomes and the MAPK signaling pathway through recruitment of some of its components to late endosomes. May be involved in cholesterol homeostasis regulating LDL uptake and cholesterol release from late endosomes/lysosomes. May also play a role in RHOA activation.	diff
C11orf74	This gene encodes a protein that was identified as a cellular interacting partner of non-structural protein 10 of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV). The encoded protein may function as a negative regulator of transcription. There is a pseudogene for this gene on chromosome 1. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2013]	C11orf74 (Chromosome 11 Open Reading Frame 74) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C11orf74 include severe acute respiratory syndrome.	empty	same
C11orf73	empty	C11orf73 (Chromosome 11 Open Reading Frame 73) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein transporter activity and Hsp70 protein binding.	Acts as a specific nuclear import carrier for HSP70 proteins following heat-shock stress: acts by mediating the nucleoporin-dependent translocation of ATP-bound HSP70 proteins into the nucleus. HSP70 proteins import is required to protect cells from heat shock damages. Does not translocate ADP-bound HSP70 proteins into the nucleus.	same
C11orf67	empty	AAMDC (Adipogenesis Associated, Mth938 Domain Containing) is a Protein Coding gene.	May play a role in preadipocyte differentiation and adipogenesis.	diff
C11orf71	empty	C11orf71 (Chromosome 11 Open Reading Frame 71) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C11orf66	empty	PPP1R32 (Protein Phosphatase 1, Regulatory Subunit 32) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include phosphatase binding.	empty	diff
C11orf70	empty	C11orf70 (Chromosome 11 Open Reading Frame 70) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C11orf68	empty	C11orf68 (Chromosome 11 Open Reading Frame 68) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C11orf68 include leukemia.	empty	same
C11orf82	empty	DDIAS (DNA Damage-Induced Apoptosis Suppressor) is a Protein Coding gene.	May be an anti-apoptotic protein involved in DNA repair or cell survival.	diff
C11orf75	empty	SMCO4 (Single-Pass Membrane Protein With Coiled-Coil Domains 4) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C11orf61	empty	MSANTD2 (Myb/SANT-Like DNA-Binding Domain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C11orf80	empty	C11orf80 (Chromosome 11 Open Reading Frame 80) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C11orf83	Complex III is a mitochondrial inner membrane protein complex that transfers electrons from ubiquinol to cytochrome c. This gene encodes a protein that functions in complex III assembly. Mutations in this gene result in Mitochondrial complex III deficiency, nuclear type 9. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2014]	UQCC3 (Ubiquinol-Cytochrome C Reductase Complex Assembly Factor 3) is a Protein Coding gene.	Required for the assembly of the ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase complex (mitochondrial respiratory chain complex III or cytochrome b-c1 complex). May be involved in cytochrome b stabilization and/or assembly.	diff
C11orf86	empty	C11orf86 (Chromosome 11 Open Reading Frame 86) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C11orf88	empty	C11orf88 (Chromosome 11 Open Reading Frame 88) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C11orf87	empty	C11orf87 (Chromosome 11 Open Reading Frame 87) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C11orf84	empty	C11orf84 (Chromosome 11 Open Reading Frame 84) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C11orf90	empty	VSTM5 (V-Set And Transmembrane Domain Containing 5) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C11orf92	This gene encodes a transmembrane protein that localizes to granular structures, including crystalloid eosinophilic granules and other granular organelles. This gene, along with an overlapping opposite strand gene, has been implicated as a susceptibility locus for colorectal cancer. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]	COLCA1 (Colorectal Cancer Associated 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class. Diseases associated with COLCA1 include colorectal cancer.	empty	diff
C11orf64	empty	LINC00301 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 301) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C11orf93	empty	COLCA2 (Colorectal Cancer Associated 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COLCA2 include colorectal cancer.	empty	diff
C11orf85	empty	C11orf85 (Chromosome 11 Open Reading Frame 85) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C12orf11	empty	ASUN (Asunder Spermatogenesis Regulator) is a Protein Coding gene.	Crucial regulator of the mitotic cell cycle and development. At prophase, required for dynein anchoring to the nuclear envelope important for proper centrosome-nucleus coupling. At G2/M phase, may be required for proper spindle formation and execution of cytokinesis.	diff
C12orf12	empty	CCER1 (Coiled-Coil Glutamate-Rich Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C11orf9	This gene encodes a transcription factor that is required for central nervous system myelination and may regulate oligodendrocyte differentiation. It is thought to act by increasing the expression of genes that effect myelin production but may also directly promote myelin gene expression. Loss of a similar gene in mouse models results in severe demyelination. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]	MYRF (Myelin Regulatory Factor) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is MYRFL.	Myelin regulatory factor: Consitutes a precursor of the transcription factor. Mediates the autocatalytic cleavage that releases the Myelin regulatory factor, N-terminal component that specifically activates transcription of central nervous system (CNS) myelin genes (PubMed:23966832).	diff
C12orf23	empty	TMEM263 (Transmembrane Protein 263) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C12orf24	empty	FAM216A (Family With Sequence Similarity 216, Member A) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C12orf26	empty	METTL25 (Methyltransferase Like 25) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include methyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is RRNAD1.	Putative methyltransferase.	diff
C12orf27	empty	HNF1A-AS1 (HNF1A Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class.	empty	diff
C11orf94	empty	C11orf94 (Chromosome 11 Open Reading Frame 94) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C12orf35	empty	KIAA1551 (KIAA1551) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C12orf32	empty	RHNO1 (RAD9-HUS1-RAD1 Interacting Nuclear Orphan 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	Plays a role in DNA damage response (DDR) signaling upon genotoxic stresses such as ionizing radiation (IR) during the S phase. Recruited to sites of DNA damage through interaction with the 9-1-1 cell-cycle checkpoint response complex and TOPBP1 in a ATR-dependent manner. Required for the progression of the G1 to S phase transition. Plays a role in the stimulation of CHEK1 phosphorylation.	diff
C12orf29	empty	C12orf29 (Chromosome 12 Open Reading Frame 29) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C12orf40	empty	C12orf40 (Chromosome 12 Open Reading Frame 40) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C12orf34	empty	FAM222A (Family With Sequence Similarity 222, Member A) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is FAM222B.	empty	diff
C12orf10	empty	C12orf10 (Chromosome 12 Open Reading Frame 10) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C12orf36	empty	LINC01559 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 1559) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class.	empty	diff
C12orf39	empty	SPX (Spexin Hormone) is a Protein Coding gene.	Plays a role as a central modulator of cardiovascular and renal function and nociception. Plays also a role in energy metabolism and storage. Inhibits adrenocortical cell proliferation with minor stimulation on corticosteroid release (By similarity).	diff
C12orf42	empty	C12orf42 (Chromosome 12 Open Reading Frame 42) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C12orf44	empty	ATG101 (Autophagy Related 101) is a Protein Coding gene.	Autophagy factor required for autophagosome formation. Stabilizes ATG13, protecting it from proteasomal degradation.	diff
C12orf41	empty	KANSL2 (KAT8 Regulatory NSL Complex Subunit 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are RNA Polymerase I Promoter Opening and RNA Polymerase I Promoter Opening. GO annotations related to this gene include histone acetyltransferase activity (H4-K5 specific) and histone acetyltransferase activity (H4-K16 specific). An important paralog of this gene is INO80D.	As part of the NSL complex it is involved in acetylation of nucleosomal histone H4 on several lysine residues and therefore may be involved in the regulation of transcription.	diff
C12orf43	empty	C12orf43 (Chromosome 12 Open Reading Frame 43) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C12orf45	empty	C12orf45 (Chromosome 12 Open Reading Frame 45) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C12orf47	empty	MAPKAPK5-AS1 (MAPKAPK5 Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class.	empty	diff
C12orf48	empty	PARPBP (PARP1 Binding Protein) is a Protein Coding gene.	Required to suppress inappropriate homologous recombination, thereby playing a central role DNA repair and in the maintenance of genomic stability. Antagonizes homologous recombination by interfering with the formation of the RAD51-DNA homologous recombination structure. Binds single-strand DNA and poly(A) homopolymers. Positively regulate the poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation activity of PARP1; however such function may be indirect.	diff
C12orf50	empty	C12orf50 (Chromosome 12 Open Reading Frame 50) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C12orf49	empty	C12orf49 (Chromosome 12 Open Reading Frame 49) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C12orf52	empty	RITA1 (RBPJ Interacting And Tubulin Associated 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	Tubulin-binding protein that acts as a negative regulator of Notch signaling pathway. Shuttles between the cytoplasm and the nucleus and mediates the nuclear export of RBPJ/RBPSUH, thereby preventing the interaction between RBPJ/RBPSUH and NICD product of Notch proteins (Notch intracellular domain), leading to down-regulate Notch-mediated transcription. May play a role in neurogenesis.	diff
C12orf51	empty	HECTD4 (HECT Domain Containing E3 Ubiquitin Protein Ligase 4) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin-protein transferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is HACE1.	E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase which accepts ubiquitin from an E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme in the form of a thioester and then directly transfers the ubiquitin to targeted substrates.	diff
C12orf53	This gene encodes a ligand for the paired immunoglobin-like type 2 receptor alpha, and so may be involved in immune regulation. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]	PIANP (PILR Alpha Associated Neural Protein) is a Protein Coding gene.	Acts as a ligand for PILRA in neural tissues, where it may be involved in immune regulation.	diff
C12orf54	empty	C12orf54 (Chromosome 12 Open Reading Frame 54) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C12orf56	empty	C12orf56 (Chromosome 12 Open Reading Frame 56) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C12orf4	empty	C12orf4 (Chromosome 12 Open Reading Frame 4) is a Protein Coding gene.	Plays a role in mast cell degranulation.	same
C12orf60	empty	C12orf60 (Chromosome 12 Open Reading Frame 60) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C12orf5	This gene is regulated as part of the p53 tumor suppressor pathway and encodes a protein with sequence similarity to the bisphosphate domain of the glycolytic enzyme that degrades fructose-2,6-bisphosphate. The protein functions by blocking glycolysis and directing the pathway into the pentose phosphate shunt. Expression of this protein also protects cells from DNA damaging reactive oxygen species and provides some protection from DNA damage-induced apoptosis. The 12p13.32 region that includes this gene is paralogous to the 11q13.3 region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	TIGAR (TP53 Induced Glycolysis Regulatory Phosphatase) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Direct p53 effectors and Fructose and mannose metabolism.	Fructose-bisphosphatase hydrolyzing fructose-2,6-bisphosphate as well as fructose-1,6-bisphosphate. Inhibits glycolysis by reducing cellular levels of fructose-2,6-bisphosphate. May protect cells against reactive oxygen species and against apoptosis induced by tp53.	diff
C12orf61	empty	LINC01465 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 1465) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class.	empty	diff
C11orf95	empty	C11orf95 (Chromosome 11 Open Reading Frame 95) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C11orf95 include ependymoma and chondroid lipoma.	empty	same
C12orf65	This nuclear gene encodes a mitochondrial matrix protein that appears to contribute to peptide chain termination in the mitochondrial translation machinery. Two different 1 bp deletions (resulting in the same premature stop codon)result in decreased mitochondrial translation, decreased levels of oxidative phosphorylation complexes and encepthalomyopathy. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]	C12orf65 (Chromosome 12 Open Reading Frame 65) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C12orf65 include combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency 7 and spastic paraplegia 55, autosomal recessive. GO annotations related to this gene include translation release factor activity.	May act as a codon-independent translation release factor that has lost all stop codon specificity and directs the termination of translation in mitochondrion. May help rescuing stalled mitoribosomes during translation (By similarity).	same
C12orf62	This gene encodes a small single-pass transmembrane protein that localizes to mitochondria. This protein may play a role in coordinating the early steps of cytochrome c oxidase (COX; also known as complex IV) subunit assembly and, in particular, the synthesis and assembly of the COX I subunit of the holoenzyme. Mutations in this gene have been associated with mitochondrial complex IV deficiency. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2012]	COX14 (COX14 Cytochrome C Oxidase Assembly Factor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COX14 include mitochondrial complex iv deficiency and isolated cytochrome c oxidase deficiency.	Plays a role in the assembly or stability of the cytochrome c oxidase complex (COX). Requires for coordination of the early steps of COX assembly with the synthesis of MT-CO1.	diff
C12orf68	empty	CCDC184 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 184) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C12orf66	empty	C12orf66 (Chromosome 12 Open Reading Frame 66) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C12orf71	empty	C12orf71 (Chromosome 12 Open Reading Frame 71) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C12orf63	empty	CFAP54 (Cilia And Flagella Associated 54) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C12orf70	empty	SMCO2 (Single-Pass Membrane Protein With Coiled-Coil Domains 2) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C12orf72	empty	METTL20 (Methyltransferase Like 20) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein methyltransferase activity.	Protein-lysine methyltransferase that selectively trimethylates residues in the electron transfer flavoprotein ETFB in mitochondria.	diff
C12orf59	empty	TMEM52B is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C12orf74	empty	C12orf74 (Chromosome 12 Open Reading Frame 74) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C12orf75	empty	C12orf75 (Chromosome 12 Open Reading Frame 75) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C12orf69	empty	SMCO3 (Single-Pass Membrane Protein With Coiled-Coil Domains 3) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C12orf57	This gene is ubiquitously expressed in human tissues. It is required for development of the human corpus callosum. Mutations in this gene are associated with Temtamy syndrome (TEMTYS). Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	C12orf57 (Chromosome 12 Open Reading Frame 57) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C12orf57 include temtamy syndrome and colobomatous microphthalmia.	In brain, may be required for corpus callusum development.	same
C12orf77	empty	C12orf77 (Chromosome 12 Open Reading Frame 77) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C13orf15	This gene is thought to regulate cell cycle progression. It is induced by p53 in response to DNA damage, or by sublytic levels of complement system proteins that result in activation of the cell cycle. The encoded protein localizes to the cytoplasm during interphase and to centrosomes during mitosis. The protein forms a complex with polo-like kinase 1. The protein also translocates to the nucleus in response to treatment with complement system proteins, and can associate with and increase the kinase activity of cell division cycle 2 protein. In different assays and cell types, overexpression of this protein has been shown to activate or suppress cell cycle progression. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	RGCC (Regulator Of Cell Cycle) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Direct p53 effectors. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and protein kinase activator activity.	Modulates the activity of cell cycle-specific kinases. Enhances CDK1 activity. May contribute to the regulation of the cell cycle. May inhibit growth of glioma cells by promoting arrest of mitotic progression at the G2/M transition. Fibrogenic factor contributing to the pathogenesis of renal fibrosis through fibroblast activation.	diff
C13orf18	empty	KIAA0226L (KIAA0226-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is PLEKHM1.	empty	diff
C13orf26	empty	TEX26 (Testis Expressed 26) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C13orf29	empty	LINC00346 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 346) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class.	empty	diff
C13orf27	empty	TEX30 (Testis Expressed 30) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C13orf31	empty	LACC1 (Laccase (Multicopper Oxidoreductase) Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C12orf76	empty	C12orf76 (Chromosome 12 Open Reading Frame 76) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C13orf28	empty	SPACA7 (Sperm Acrosome Associated 7) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C13orf16	empty	TEX29 (Testis Expressed 29) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Ribosome biogenesis in eukaryotes.	empty	diff
C13orf33	empty	MEDAG (Mesenteric Estrogen-Dependent Adipogenesis) is a Protein Coding gene.	Involved in processes that promote adipocyte differentiation, lipid accumulation, and glucose uptake in mature adipocytes.	diff
C12orf73	empty	C12orf73 (Chromosome 12 Open Reading Frame 73) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C13orf35	empty	ATP11AUN (ATP11A Upstream Neighbor) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C13orf34	BORA is an activator of the protein kinase Aurora A (AURKA; MIM 603072), which is required for centrosome maturation, spindle assembly, and asymmetric protein localization during mitosis (Hutterer et al., 2006 [PubMed 16890155]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	BORA (Bora, Aurora Kinase A Activator) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding.	Required for the activation of AURKA at the onset of mitosis.	diff
C13orf39	empty	METTL21C (Methyltransferase Like 21C) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein-lysine N-methyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is VCPKMT.	Protein-lysine methyltransferase.	diff
C13orf23	This gene encodes a conserved protein containing proline and serine rich regions. These regions may be important in protein-protein interactions. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012]	PROSER1 (Proline And Serine Rich 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C13orf1	empty	SPRYD7 (SPRY Domain Containing 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with SPRYD7 include chronic lymphocytic leukemia.	empty	diff
C13orf30	empty	FAM216B (Family With Sequence Similarity 216, Member B) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C13orf38	empty	CCDC169 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 169) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C14orf101	empty	TMEM260 (Transmembrane Protein 260) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C14orf105	empty	C14orf105 (Chromosome 14 Open Reading Frame 105) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C14orf104	This gene encodes a highly conserved protein involved in the preassembly of dynein arm complexes which power cilia. These complexes are found in some cilia and are assembled in the cytoplasm prior to transport for cilia formation. Mutations in this gene have been associated with primary ciliary dyskinesia. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]	DNAAF2 (Dynein, Axonemal, Assembly Factor 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DNAAF2 include ciliary dyskinesia, primary, 10 and primary ciliary dyskinesia10: dnaaf2-related primary ciliary dyskinesia.	Required for cytoplasmic pre-assembly of axonemal dyneins, thereby playing a central role in motility in cilia and flagella. Involved in pre-assembly of dynein arm complexes in the cytoplasm before intraflagellar transport loads them for the ciliary compartment	diff
C14orf106	empty	MIS18BP1 (MIS18 Binding Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Packaging Of Telomere Ends. GO annotations related to this gene include chromatin binding.	Required for recruitment of CENPA to centromeres and normal chromosome segregation during mitosis.	diff
C13orf37	empty	MZT1 (Mitotic Spindle Organizing Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	Required for gamma-tubulin complex recruitment to the centrosome.	diff
C14orf115	empty	VRTN (Vertebrae Development Associated) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding and transposase activity.	empty	diff
C14orf128	empty	ARHGAP5-AS1 (ARHGAP5 Antisense RNA 1 (Head To Head)) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C14orf126	empty	DTD2 (D-Tyrosyl-TRNA Deacylase 2 (Putative)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrolase activity, acting on ester bonds. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000203546.	Hydrolyzes D-tyrosyl-tRNA(Tyr) into D-tyrosine and free tRNA(Tyr). Could be a defense mechanism against a harmful effect of D-tyrosine (Potential).	diff
C13orf36	empty	SERTM1 (Serine-Rich And Transmembrane Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C14orf132	empty	C14orf132 (Chromosome 14 Open Reading Frame 132) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C14orf119	empty	C14orf119 (Chromosome 14 Open Reading Frame 119) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C14orf129	This gene encodes a protein that is involved as a negative regulator of GSK3-beta in the Wnt signaling pathway. The encoded protein may play a role in the retinoic acid signaling pathway by regulating the functional interactions between GSK3-beta, beta-catenin and cyclin D1, and it regulates the beta-catenin/N-cadherin pool. The encoded protein contains a GSK3-beta interacting domain (GID) in its C-terminus, which is similar to the GID of Axin. The protein also contains an evolutionarily conserved RII-binding domain, which facilitates binding with protein kinase-A and GSK3-beta, enabling its role as an A-kinase anchoring protein. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]	GSKIP (GSK3B Interacting Protein) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C14orf135	empty	PCNXL4 (Pecanex-Like 4 (Drosophila)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with PCNXL4 include hepatitis c and hepatitis c virus. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. An important paralog of this gene is PCNX.	empty	diff
C14orf102	empty	NRDE2 (NRDE-2, Necessary For RNA Interference, Domain Containing) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C14orf139	empty	LINC00341 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 341) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C14orf138	empty	VCPKMT (Valosin Containing Protein Lysine (K) Methyltransferase) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein-lysine N-methyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is METTL21C.	Protein-lysine N-methyltransferase that specifically trimethylates Lys-315 of VCP/p97; this modification may decrease VCP ATPase activity.	diff
C14orf118	empty	GPATCH2L (G Patch Domain Containing 2-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is GPATCH2.	empty	diff
C14orf143	empty	EFCAB11 (EF-Hand Calcium Binding Domain 11) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding.	empty	diff
C14orf149	empty	L3HYPDH (L-3-Hydroxyproline Dehydratase (Trans-)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include hydro-lyase activity and trans-L-3-hydroxyproline dehydratase activity.	Catalyzes the dehydration of trans-3-hydroxy-L-proline to Delta(1)-pyrroline-2-carboxylate (Pyr2C). May be required to degrade trans-3-hydroxy-L-proline from the diet and originating from the degradation of proteins such as collagen-IV that contain it.	diff
C14orf148	empty	NOXRED1 (NADP-Dependent Oxidoreductase Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include pyrroline-5-carboxylate reductase activity.	Probable oxidoreductase.	diff
C14orf109	empty	TMEM251 (Transmembrane Protein 251) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C14orf147	Serine palmitoyltransferase (SPT; EC 2.3.1.50) catalyzes the first committed and rate-limiting step in sphingolipid biosynthesis. SSSPTA is a small SPT subunit that stimulates SPT activity and confers acyl-CoA preference to the SPT catalytic heterodimer of SPTLC1 (MIM 605712) and either SPTLC2 (MIM 605713) or SPTLC3 (MIM 611120) (Han et al., 2009 [PubMed 19416851]).[supplied by OMIM, Nov 2010]	SPTSSA (Serine Palmitoyltransferase, Small Subunit A) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are ceramide de novo biosynthesis. GO annotations related to this gene include serine C-palmitoyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is SPTSSB.	Stimulates the activity of serine palmitoyltransferase (SPT). The composition of the serine palmitoyltransferase (SPT) complex determines the substrate preference. The SPTLC1-SPTLC2-SPTSSA complex shows a strong preference for C16-CoA substrate, while the SPTLC1-SPTLC3-SPTSSA isozyme uses both C14-CoA and C16-CoA as substrates, with a slight preference for C14-CoA.	diff
C14orf153	This gene encodes a protein that localizes to the mitochondria, where it stimulates the release of cytochrome c, thereby promoting programmed cell death. Mutations in this gene have been found in individuals with mitochondrial complex IV deficiency. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]	APOPT1 (Apoptogenic 1, Mitochondrial) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with APOPT1 include mitochondrial complex iv deficiency.	Plays a role in the regulation of apoptosis. Mediates mitochondria-induced cell death in vascular smooth muscle cells through the release of cytochrome c from mitochondria, followed by the activation of the caspase cascade.	diff
C14orf156	Steroid receptor RNA activator (SRA, or SRA1; MIM 603819) is a complex RNA molecule containing multiple stable stem-loop structures that functions in coactivation of nuclear receptors. SLIRP interacts with stem-loop structure-7 of SRA (STR7) and modulates nuclear receptor transactivation (Hatchell et al., 2006 [PubMed 16762838]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	SLIRP (SRA Stem-Loop Interacting RNA Binding Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and nucleotide binding.	RNA-binding protein that acts as a nuclear receptor corepressor. Probably acts by binding the SRA RNA, and repressing the SRA-mediated nuclear receptor coactivation. Binds the STR7 loop of SRA RNA. Also able to repress glucocorticoid (GR), androgen (AR), thyroid (TR) and VDR-mediated transactivation.	diff
C14orf162	empty	CCDC177 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 177) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C14orf145	empty	CEP128 (Centrosomal Protein 128kDa) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C14orf166	empty	C14orf166 (Chromosome 14 Open Reading Frame 166) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and RNA polymerase II core binding.	RNA-binding protein involved in modulation of mRNA transcription by Polymerase II. In case of infection by influenza virus A, is involved in viral replication. Component of the tRNA-splicing ligase complex and is required for tRNA ligation (PubMed:24870230). May be required for RNA transport (PubMed:24608264).	same
C14orf159	empty	C14orf159 (Chromosome 14 Open Reading Frame 159) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
B4GALT7	This gene is a member of the beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase (beta4GalT) family. Family members encode type II membrane-bound glycoproteins that appear to have exclusive specificity for the donor substrate UDP-galactose. Each beta4GalT member has a distinct function in the biosynthesis of different glycoconjugates and saccharide structures. As type II membrane proteins, they have an N-terminal hydrophobic signal sequence that directs the protein to the Golgi apparatus which then remains uncleaved to function as a transmembrane anchor. The enzyme encoded by this gene attaches the first galactose in the common carbohydrate-protein linkage (GlcA-beta1,3-Gal-beta1,3-Gal-beta1,4-Xyl-beta1-O-Ser) found in proteoglycans. This enzyme differs from other beta4GalTs because it lacks the conserved Cys residues found in beta4GalT1-beta4GalT6 and it is located in cis-Golgi instead of trans-Golgi. Mutations in this gene have been associated with the progeroid form of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]	B4GALT7 (Xylosylprotein Beta 1,4-Galactosyltransferase, Polypeptide 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with B4GALT7 include ehlers-danlos syndrome, progeroid type, 1 and reunion island's larsen syndrome. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include galactosyltransferase activity and xylosylprotein 4-beta-galactosyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is B4GALT2.	Required for the biosynthesis of the tetrasaccharide linkage region of proteoglycans, especially for small proteoglycans in skin fibroblasts.	same
C14orf166B	empty	LRRC74A (Leucine Rich Repeat Containing 74A) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is LRRC34.	empty	diff
C14orf142	empty	C14orf142 (Chromosome 14 Open Reading Frame 142) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C14orf167	empty	DHRS4-AS1 (DHRS4 Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class.	empty	diff
C14orf169	empty	C14orf169 (Chromosome 14 Open Reading Frame 169) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include iron ion binding and histone demethylase activity (H3-K36 specific).	Oxygenase that can act as both a histone lysine demethylase and a ribosomal histidine hydroxylase. Specifically demethylates Lys-4 (H3K4me) and Lys-36 (H3K36me) of histone H3, thereby playing a central role in histone code. Preferentially demethylates trimethylated H3 Lys-4 (H3K4me3) and monomethylated H3 Lys-4 (H3K4me1) residues, while it has weaker activity for dimethylated H3 Lys-36 (H3K36me2). Also catalyzes the hydroxylation of 60S ribosomal protein L8 on His-216. Acts as a regulator of osteoblast differentiation via its interaction with SP7/OSX by demethylating H3K4me and H3K36me, thereby inhibiting SP7/OSX-mediated promoter activation (By similarity). May also play a role in ribosome biogenesis and in the replication or remodeling of certain heterochromatic region. Participates in MYC-induced transcriptional activation.	same
C14orf174	empty	SAMD15 (Sterile Alpha Motif Domain Containing 15) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C14orf165	empty	LINC00596 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 596) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C14orf181	empty	empty	empty	same
C14orf177	empty	C14orf177 (Chromosome 14 Open Reading Frame 177) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C14orf176	empty	TMEM253 (Transmembrane Protein 253) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C14orf182	empty	LINC01588 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 1588) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class.	empty	diff
C14orf183	empty	LINC01599 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 1599) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class.	empty	diff
C14orf179	This gene encodes a subunit of the intraflagellar transport complex A (IFT-A). IFT-A is a multiprotein complex that plays an important role in cilia assembly and maintenance by mediating retrograde ciliary transport. Mutations in this gene are a cause of cranioectodermal dysplasia-3 (CED3), also known as Sensenbrenner syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	IFT43 (Intraflagellar Transport 43) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with IFT43 include cranioectodermal dysplasia 3 and cranioectodermal dysplasia 1.	Component of IFT complex A (IFT-A) involved in retrograde ciliary transport along microtubules from the ciliary tip to the base.	diff
C14orf180	empty	C14orf180 (Chromosome 14 Open Reading Frame 180) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C14orf19	empty	IGBP1P1 (Immunoglobulin (CD79A) Binding Protein 1 Pseudogene 1) is a Pseudogene.	empty	diff
C14orf21	empty	NOP9 (NOP9 Nucleolar Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding.	empty	diff
C14orf1	empty	C14orf1 (Chromosome 14 Open Reading Frame 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C14orf28	empty	C14orf28 (Chromosome 14 Open Reading Frame 28) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C14orf33	empty	KTN1-AS1 (KTN1 Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C14orf23	empty	LINC01551 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 1551) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class.	empty	diff
C14orf184	empty	empty	empty	same
C14orf34	empty	LINC00520 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 520) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the processed_transcript RNA class.	empty	diff
C14orf39	empty	C14orf39 (Chromosome 14 Open Reading Frame 39) is a Protein Coding gene.	May be involved in eye development through regulation of the SIX6 transcription factor	same
C14orf45	empty	CCDC176 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 176) is a Protein Coding gene.	Basal body protein required in multiciliate cells to align and maintain cilia orientation in response to flow. May act by mediating a maturation step that stabilizes and aligns cilia orientation. Not required to respond to planar cell polarity (PCP) or flow-based orientation cues (By similarity).	diff
C14orf2	empty	C14orf2 (Chromosome 14 Open Reading Frame 2) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C14orf178	empty	C14orf178 (Chromosome 14 Open Reading Frame 178) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C14orf48	empty	LINC00521 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 521) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C14orf4	This gene encodes a transcription factor that may play a role in regulating female reproductive function. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]	IRF2BPL (Interferon Regulatory Factor 2 Binding Protein-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is IRF2BP2.	May contribute to the control of female reproductive function (By similarity). May play a role in gene transcription by transactivating GNRH1 promoter and repressing PENK promoter.	diff
C14orf50	empty	PPP1R36 (Protein Phosphatase 1, Regulatory Subunit 36) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include phosphatase binding and protein phosphatase inhibitor activity.	Inhibits phosphatase activity of protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) complexes.	diff
C14orf53	empty	LINC00238 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 238) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C14orf70	empty	LINC00523 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 523) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C14orf72	empty	LINC00239 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 239) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class.	empty	diff
C14orf64	empty	LINC01550 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 1550) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class.	empty	diff
C14orf73	empty	EXOC3L4 (Exocyst Complex Component 3-Like 4) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is TNFAIP2.	empty	diff
C14orf80	empty	C14orf80 (Chromosome 14 Open Reading Frame 80) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C14orf68	empty	SLC25A47 (Solute Carrier Family 25, Member 47) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with SLC25A47 include hepatocellular carcinoma. An important paralog of this gene is SLC25A20.	Uncoupling protein which may catalyze the physiological proton leak in liver. Overexpression induces the dissipation of mitochondrial membrane potential.	diff
C14orf93	empty	C14orf93 (Chromosome 14 Open Reading Frame 93) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C15orf21	empty	HMGN2P46 (High Mobility Group Nucleosomal Binding Domain 2 Pseudogene 46) is a Pseudogene.	empty	diff
C14orf86	empty	FAM181A-AS1 (FAM181A Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class.	empty	diff
C15orf28	empty	ANP32A-IT1 (ANP32A Intronic Transcript 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C14orf43	empty	ELMSAN1 (ELM2 And Myb/SANT-Like Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include chromatin binding. An important paralog of this gene is ZNF541.	empty	diff
C14orf37	empty	C14orf37 (Chromosome 14 Open Reading Frame 37) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C15orf27	empty	C15orf27 (Chromosome 15 Open Reading Frame 27) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is HVCN1.	empty	same
C15orf33	empty	FAM227B (Family With Sequence Similarity 227, Member B) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C15orf17	empty	FAM219B (Family With Sequence Similarity 219, Member B) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is FAM219A.	empty	diff
C15orf26	empty	C15orf26 (Chromosome 15 Open Reading Frame 26) is a Protein Coding gene.	May play a role for motile cilia function, possibly by acting on dynein arm assembly.	same
C15orf38	empty	ARPIN (Actin-Related Protein 2/3 Complex Inhibitor) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is C15orf38-AP3S2.	Regulates actin polymerization by inhibiting the actin-nucleating activity of the Arp2/3 complex; the function is competetive with nucleation promoting factors. Participates in an incoherent feedforward loop at the lamellipodium tip where it inhibits the ARP2/2 complex in response to Rac signaling and where Rac also stimulates actin polymerization through the WAVE complex. Involved in steering cell migration by controlling its directional persistence.	diff
C15orf34	empty	HEXA-AS1 (HEXA Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class.	empty	diff
C15orf24	empty	EMC7 (ER Membrane Protein Complex Subunit 7) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding and purine nucleotide binding.	empty	diff
C15orf39	empty	C15orf39 (Chromosome 15 Open Reading Frame 39) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C15orf23	empty	KNSTRN (Kinetochore-Localized Astrin/SPAG5 Binding Protein) is a Protein Coding gene.	Essential component of the mitotic spindle required for faithful chromosome segregation and progression into anaphase (PubMed:19667759). Promotes the metaphase-to-anaphase transition and is required for chromosome alignment, normal timing of sister chromatid segregation, and maintenance of spindle pole architecture (PubMed:19667759, PubMed:22110139). The astrin (SPAG5)-kinastrin (SKAP) complex promotes stable microtubule-kinetochore attachments (PubMed:21402792). Required for kinetochore oscillations and dynamics of microtubule plus-ends during live cell mitosis, possibly by forming a link between spindle microtubule plus-ends and mitotic chromosomes to achieve faithful cell division (PubMed:23035123). May be involved in UV-induced apoptosis via its interaction with PRPF19; however, these results need additional evidences (PubMed:24718257).	diff
C15orf29	empty	KATNBL1 (Katanin P80 Subunit B-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C14orf49	empty	SYNE3 (Spectrin Repeat Containing, Nuclear Envelope Family Member 3) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding.	Component of SUN-protein-containing multivariate complexes also called LINC complexes which link the nucleoskeleton and cytoskeleton by providing versatile outer nuclear membrane attachment sites for cytoskeletal filaments. Involved in the maintenance of nuclear organization and structural integrity. Probable anchoring protein which tethers the nucleus to the cytoskeleton by binding PLEC which can associate with the intermediate filament system. Plays a role in the regulation of aortic epithelial cell morphology, and is required for flow-induced centrosome polarization and directional migration in aortic endothelial cells.	diff
C14orf79	empty	C14orf79 (Chromosome 14 Open Reading Frame 79) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C15orf32	empty	C15orf32 (Chromosome 15 Open Reading Frame 32) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C15orf41	This gene encodes a protein with two predicted helix-turn-helix domains. Mutations in this gene were found in families with congenital dyserythropoietic anemia type Ib. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2014]	C15orf41 (Chromosome 15 Open Reading Frame 41) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C15orf41 include dyserythropoietic anemia, congenital, type ib and dyserythropoietic anemia, congenital, type ia.	empty	same
C15orf2	This gene is located in the Prader-Willi syndrome region on chromosome 15. This gene is biallelically expressed in adult testis and brain but is paternally imprinted in fetal brain. Defects in this gene may be associated with Prader-Willi syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012]	NPAP1 (Nuclear Pore Associated Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with NPAP1 include prader-willi syndrome.	May be involved in spermatogenesis	diff
C15orf40	empty	C15orf40 (Chromosome 15 Open Reading Frame 40) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C15orf43	empty	C15orf43 (Chromosome 15 Open Reading Frame 43) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C15orf50	empty	LINC00593 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 593) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C15orf37	empty	ST20-AS1 (ST20 Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class.	empty	diff
C15orf42	Treslin is involved in the initiation of DNA replication (Kumagai et al., 2010 [PubMed 20116089]).[supplied by OMIM, Apr 2010]	TICRR (TOPBP1-Interacting Checkpoint And Replication Regulator) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include chromatin binding.	Regulator of DNA replication and S/M and G2/M checkpoints. Regulates the triggering of DNA replication initiation via its interaction with TOPBP1 by participating in CDK2-mediated loading of CDC45L onto replication origins. Required for the transition from pre-replication complex (pre-RC) to pre-initiation complex (pre-IC). Required to prevent mitotic entry after treatment with ionizing radiation.	diff
C15orf51	empty	DNM1P46 (Dynamin 1 Pseudogene 46) is a Pseudogene. GO annotations related to this gene include GTPase activity.	empty	diff
C15orf52	empty	C15orf52 (Chromosome 15 Open Reading Frame 52) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C15orf52 include colorectal cancer. An important paralog of this gene is CCDC9.	empty	same
C15orf53	empty	C15orf53 (Chromosome 15 Open Reading Frame 53) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C15orf44	empty	VWA9 (Von Willebrand Factor A Domain Containing 9) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C15orf55	empty	NUTM1 (NUT Midline Carcinoma, Family Member 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Chromatin Regulation / Acetylation. An important paralog of this gene is NUTM2B.	empty	diff
C15orf56	empty	C15orf56 (Chromosome 15 Open Reading Frame 56) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C15orf5	empty	LINC00597 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 597) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C15orf58	empty	GDPGP1 (GDP-D-Glucose Phosphorylase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleotide binding and guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity.	Specific and highly efficient GDP-D-glucose phosphorylase regulating the levels of GDP-D-glucose in cells.	diff
C15orf59	empty	C15orf59 (Chromosome 15 Open Reading Frame 59) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C15orf57	empty	C15orf57 (Chromosome 15 Open Reading Frame 57) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C15orf48	This gene was first identified in a study of human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma tissues. Levels of both the message and protein are reduced in carcinoma samples. In adult human tissues, this gene is expressed in the the esophagus, stomach, small intestine, colon and placenta. Alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode the same protein have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]	C15orf48 (Chromosome 15 Open Reading Frame 48) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C15orf60	empty	REC114 (REC114 Meiotic Recombination Protein) is a Protein Coding gene.	May play a role in meiotic DNA double-strand break formation.	diff
C15orf63	empty	HYPK (Huntingtin Interacting Protein K) is a Protein Coding gene.	Has a chaperone-like activity preventing polyglutamine (polyQ) aggregation of HTT. Protects against HTT polyQ-mediated apoptosis in Neuro2a neuronal cells. Required for optimal NAA10-NAA15 complex-mediated N-terminal acetylation.	diff
C15orf54	empty	C15orf54 (Chromosome 15 Open Reading Frame 54) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C15orf62	empty	C15orf62 (Chromosome 15 Open Reading Frame 62) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C16orf3	empty	GAS8-AS1 (GAS8 Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class.	empty	diff
C15orf61	empty	C15orf61 (Chromosome 15 Open Reading Frame 61) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C15orf61 include malaria.	empty	same
C16orf45	empty	C16orf45 (Chromosome 16 Open Reading Frame 45) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C16orf11	empty	PRR35 (Proline Rich 35) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ZNF750.	empty	diff
C16orf48	empty	ENKD1 (Enkurin Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C16orf55	empty	empty	empty	same
C16orf52	empty	C16orf52 (Chromosome 16 Open Reading Frame 52) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C16orf13	empty	C16orf13 (Chromosome 16 Open Reading Frame 13) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C16orf53	C16ORF53 (PA1) is a component of a Set1-like multiprotein histone methyltransferase complex (Cho et al., 2007 [PubMed 17500065]).[supplied by OMIM, May 2008]	PAGR1 (PAXIP1 Associated Glutamate-Rich Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are WNT Signaling and VEGF Pathway.	empty	diff
C16orf57	This gene encodes a protein with several conserved domains, however, its exact function is not known. Mutations in this gene are associated with poikiloderma with neutropenia (PN), which shows phenotypic overlap with Rothmund-Thomson syndrome (RTS) caused by mutations in the RECQL4 gene. It is believed that this gene product interacts with RECQL4 protein via SMAD4 proteins, explaining the partial clinical overlap between PN and RTS. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]	USB1 (U6 SnRNA Biogenesis 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with USB1 include poikiloderma with neutropenia and dyskeratosis congenita. GO annotations related to this gene include 3-5-exoribonuclease activity.	Phosphodiesterase responsible for the U6 snRNA 3 end processing. Acts as an exoribonuclease (RNase) responsible for trimming the poly(U) tract of the last nucleotides in the pre-U6 snRNA molecule, leading to the formation of mature U6 snRNA 3 end-terminated with a 2,3-cyclic phosphate.	diff
C16orf42	empty	TSR3 (TSR3, 20S RRNA Accumulation, Homolog (S. Cerevisiae)) is a Protein Coding gene.	Probable pre-rRNA processing protein involved in ribosome biogenesis.	diff
C16orf58	This gene encodes a putative transmembrane protein containing a conserved DUF647 domain that may be involved in protein-protein interaction. The encoded protein is related to a plant protein that participates in ultraviolet B light-sensing during root morphogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2013]	C16orf58 (Chromosome 16 Open Reading Frame 58) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C16orf54	empty	C16orf54 (Chromosome 16 Open Reading Frame 54) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C16orf5	empty	CDIP1 (Cell Death-Inducing P53 Target 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is LITAF.	Acts as an important p53/TP53-apoptotic effector. Regulates TNF-alpha-mediated apoptosis in a p53/TP53-dependent manner.	diff
C16orf62	empty	C16orf62 (Chromosome 16 Open Reading Frame 62) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C16orf62 include esophageal cancer.	Involved in copper-dependent ATP7A trafficking between the trans-Golgi network and vesicles in the cell periphery; the function is proposed to depend on its association within the CCC complex and cooperation with the WASH complex on early endosomes. Seems not to be required for CCC complex stability (PubMed:25355947).	same
C16orf63	empty	FOPNL (FGFR1OP N-Terminal Like) is a Protein Coding gene.	Involved in the biogenesis of cilia.	diff
C16orf70	empty	C16orf70 (Chromosome 16 Open Reading Frame 70) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C16orf46	empty	C16orf46 (Chromosome 16 Open Reading Frame 46) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C16orf71	empty	C16orf71 (Chromosome 16 Open Reading Frame 71) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C16orf75	RMI2 is a component of the BLM (RECQL3; MIM 604610) complex, which plays a role in homologous recombination-dependent DNA repair and is essential for genome stability (Xu et al., 2008 [PubMed 18923082]).[supplied by OMIM, Nov 2008]	RMI2 (RecQ Mediated Genome Instability 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Fanconi anemia pathway (KEGG).	Essential component of the RMI complex, a complex that plays an important role in the processing of homologous recombination intermediates to limit DNA crossover formation in cells. The complex is therefore essential for the stability, localization, and function of complexes containing BLM. In the RMI complex, it is required to target BLM to chromatin and stress-induced nuclear foci and mitotic phosphorylation of BLM.	diff
C16orf74	empty	C16orf74 (Chromosome 16 Open Reading Frame 74) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C16orf73	empty	MEIOB (Meiosis Specific With OB Domains) is a Protein Coding gene.	Single-stranded DNA-binding protein required for homologous recombination in meiosis I. Required for double strand breaks (DSBs) repair and crossover formation and promotion of faithful and complete synapsis. Not required for the initial loading of recombinases but required to maintain a proper number of RAD51 and DMC1 foci after the zygotene stage. May act by ensuring the stabilization of recombinases, which is required for successful homology search and meiotic recombination. Displays Single-stranded DNA 3-5 exonuclease activity in vitro (By similarity).	diff
C16orf59	empty	C16orf59 (Chromosome 16 Open Reading Frame 59) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C16orf79	empty	BRICD5 (BRICHOS Domain Containing 5) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C16orf61	empty	CMC2 (C-X(9)-C Motif Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene.	May be involved in cytochrome c oxidase biogenesis.	diff
C16orf80	empty	CFAP20 (Cilia And Flagella Associated Protein 20) is a Protein Coding gene.	Cilium- and flagellum-specific protein that plays a role in axonemal structure organization and motility. Involved in the regulation of the size and morphology of cilia (PubMed:24414207). Required for axonemal microtubules polyglutamylation (PubMed:24414207).	diff
C16orf7	empty	VPS9D1 (VPS9 Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity and GTPase activator activity.	empty	diff
C16orf82	empty	C16orf82 (Chromosome 16 Open Reading Frame 82) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C16orf87	empty	C16orf87 (Chromosome 16 Open Reading Frame 87) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C16orf68	empty	METTL22 (Methyltransferase Like 22) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include methyltransferase activity.	Protein N-lysine methyltransferase. In vitro methylates KIN.	diff
C16orf90	empty	C16orf90 (Chromosome 16 Open Reading Frame 90) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C16orf88	empty	KNOP1 (Lysine-Rich Nucleolar Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C16orf86	empty	C16orf86 (Chromosome 16 Open Reading Frame 86) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C16orf72	empty	C16orf72 (Chromosome 16 Open Reading Frame 72) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C16orf78	empty	C16orf78 (Chromosome 16 Open Reading Frame 78) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C16orf92	empty	C16orf92 (Chromosome 16 Open Reading Frame 92) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C17orf100	empty	C17orf100 (Chromosome 17 Open Reading Frame 100) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C17orf103	empty	NATD1 (N-Acetyltransferase Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C17orf102	empty	C17orf102 (Chromosome 17 Open Reading Frame 102) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C16orf81	empty	LINC00304 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 304) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C17orf104	empty	C17orf104 (Chromosome 17 Open Reading Frame 104) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C17orf105	empty	C17orf105 (Chromosome 17 Open Reading Frame 105) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C17orf28	empty	HID1 (HID1 Domain Containing) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Meiosis and Meiosis.	May play an important role in the development of cancers in a broad range of tissues.	diff
C17orf108	empty	LYRM9 (LYR Motif Containing 9) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000266202.	empty	diff
C17orf106	C17ORF106, or TEN1, appears to function in a telomere-associated complex with STN1 (OBFC1; MIM 613128) and CTC1 (C17ORF68; MIM 613129) (Miyake et al., 2009 [PubMed 19854130]).[supplied by OMIM, Nov 2009]	TEN1 (TEN1 CST Complex Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene.	Component of the CST complex, a complex that binds to single-stranded DNA and is required to protect telomeres from DNA degradation. The CST complex binds single-stranded DNA with high affinity in a sequence-independent manner, while isolated subunits bind DNA with low affinity by themselves. In addition to telomere protection, the CST complex has probably a more general role in DNA metabolism at non-telomeric sites.	diff
C17orf39	The multiprotein Mediator complex is a coactivator required for activation of RNA polymerase II transcription by DNA bound transcription factors. The protein encoded by this gene is thought to be a subunit of the Mediator complex. This gene is located within the Smith-Magenis syndrome region on chromosome 17. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	GID4 (GID Complex Subunit 4) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C17orf107	empty	C17orf107 (Chromosome 17 Open Reading Frame 107) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C17orf37	empty	MIEN1 (Migration And Invasion Enhancer 1) is a Protein Coding gene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class. Diseases associated with MIEN1 include prostate adenocarcinoma and brain cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include selenium binding.	Increases cell migration by inducing filopodia formation at the leading edge of migrating cells. Plays a role in regulation of apoptosis, possibly through control of CASP3. May be involved in a redox-related process.	diff
C16orf91	empty	C16orf91 (Chromosome 16 Open Reading Frame 91) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C16orf93	empty	C16orf93 (Chromosome 16 Open Reading Frame 93) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C17orf44	empty	LINC00324 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 324) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C17orf42	empty	TEFM (Transcription Elongation Factor, Mitochondrial) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleic acid binding and DNA polymerase processivity factor activity.	Transcription elongation factor which increases mitochondrial RNA polymerase processivity. Regulates transcription of the mitochondrial genome, including genes important for the oxidative phosphorylation machinery.	diff
C16orf89	This gene is expressed predominantly in the thyroid. Based on expression patterns similar to thyroid transcription factors and proteins, this gene may function in the development and function of the thyroid. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]	C16orf89 (Chromosome 16 Open Reading Frame 89) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C17orf47	empty	C17orf47 (Chromosome 17 Open Reading Frame 47) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C17orf48	empty	ADPRM (ADP-Ribose/CDP-Alcohol Diphosphatase, Manganese-Dependent) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Purine metabolism (KEGG) and Glycerophospholipid biosynthesis. GO annotations related to this gene include ADP-ribose diphosphatase activity and CDP-glycerol diphosphatase activity.	Hydrolyzes ADP-ribose, IDP-ribose, CDP-glycerol, CDP-choline and CDP-ethanolamine, but not other non-reducing ADP-sugars or CDP-glucose. May be involved in immune cell signaling as suggested by the second-messenger role of ADP-ribose, which activates TRPM2 as a mediator of oxidative/nitrosative stress (By similarity).	diff
C17orf51	empty	C17orf51 (Chromosome 17 Open Reading Frame 51) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C17orf49	empty	C17orf49 (Chromosome 17 Open Reading Frame 49) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include chromatin binding. An important paralog of this gene is RNASEK-C17orf49.	Component of chromatin complexes such as the MLL1/MLL and NURF complexes	same
C17orf53	empty	C17orf53 (Chromosome 17 Open Reading Frame 53) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C17orf55	empty	LINC00482 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 482) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C17orf58	empty	C17orf58 (Chromosome 17 Open Reading Frame 58) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C17orf59	empty	C17orf59 (Chromosome 17 Open Reading Frame 59) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C17orf50	empty	C17orf50 (Chromosome 17 Open Reading Frame 50) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C17orf57	empty	EFCAB13 (EF-Hand Calcium Binding Domain 13) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding.	empty	diff
C17orf61	empty	TMEM256 (Transmembrane Protein 256) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with TMEM256 include intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000262481.	empty	diff
C17orf56	empty	ENTHD2 (ENTH Domain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C17orf64	empty	C17orf64 (Chromosome 17 Open Reading Frame 64) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C17orf65	empty	ASB16-AS1 (ASB16 Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class. Diseases associated with ASB16-AS1 include intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma.	empty	diff
C17orf66	empty	HEATR9 (HEAT Repeat Containing 9) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C17orf101	empty	OGFOD3 (2-Oxoglutarate And Iron-Dependent Oxygenase Domain Containing 3) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include iron ion binding and oxidoreductase activity, acting on paired donors, with incorporation or reduction of molecular oxygen, 2-oxoglutarate as one donor, and incorporation of one atom each of oxygen into both donors.	empty	diff
C17orf62	empty	C17orf62 (Chromosome 17 Open Reading Frame 62) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C17orf46	empty	SPATA32 (Spermatogenesis Associated 32) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding.	empty	diff
C17orf54	empty	LINC00469 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 469) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class.	empty	diff
C17orf63	empty	FAM222B (Family With Sequence Similarity 222, Member B) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is FAM222A.	empty	diff
C17orf68	This gene encodes a component of the CST complex. This complex plays an essential role in protecting telomeres from degradation. This protein also forms a heterodimer with the CST complex subunit STN1 to form the enzyme alpha accessory factor. This enzyme regulates DNA replication. Mutations in this gene are the cause of cerebroretinal microangiopathy with calcifications and cysts. Alternate splicing results in both coding and non-coding variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]	CTC1 (CTS Telomere Maintenance Complex Component 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTC1 include cerebroretinal microangiopathy with calcifications and cysts and coats disease. GO annotations related to this gene include single-stranded DNA binding.	Component of the CST complex, a complex that binds to single-stranded DNA and is required to protect telomeres from DNA degradation. The CST complex binds single-stranded DNA with high affinity in a sequence-independent manner, while isolated subunits bind DNA with low affinity by themselves. In addition to telomere protection, the CST complex has probably a more general role in DNA metabolism at non-telomeric sites.	diff
C17orf70	FAAP100 is a component of the Fanconi anemia (FA; MIM 277650) core complex and is required for core complex stability and FANCD2 (see MIM 227646) monoubiquitination (Ling et al., 2007 [PubMed 17396147]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	C17orf70 (Chromosome 17 Open Reading Frame 70) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C17orf70 include fanconi anemia, complementation group m. Among its related pathways are DNA Repair and Fanconi anemia pathway (KEGG).	Plays a role in Fanconi anemia-associated DNA damage response network. Regulates FANCD2 monoubiquitination and the stability of the FA core complex. Induces chromosomal instability as well as hypersensitivity to DNA cross-linking agents, when repressed.	same
C17orf71	empty	SMG8 (SMG8 Nonsense Mediated MRNA Decay Factor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with SMG8 include breast cancer. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and Influenza Viral RNA Transcription and Replication. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000265303.	Involved in nonsense-mediated decay (NMD) of mRNAs containing premature stop codons. Is recruited by release factors to stalled ribosomes together with SMG1 and SMG9 (forming the SMG1C protein kinase complex) and, in the SMG1C complex, is required to mediate the recruitment of SMG1 to the ribosome:SURF complex and to suppress SMG1 kinase activity until the ribosome:SURF complex locates the exon junction complex (EJC). Acts as a regulator of kinase activity.	diff
C17orf60	empty	MILR1 (Mast Cell Immunoglobulin-Like Receptor 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	Immunoglobulin-like receptor which plays an inhibitory role in degranulation of mast cells. Negatively regulates IgE-mediated mast cell activation and suppresses the type I immediate hypersensitivity reaction (By similarity).	diff
C17orf72	empty	PRR29 (Proline Rich 29) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C17orf73	empty	LINC00483 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 483) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C17orf75	empty	C17orf75 (Chromosome 17 Open Reading Frame 75) is a Protein Coding gene.	May have a role in spermatogenesis	same
C17orf74	empty	C17orf74 (Chromosome 17 Open Reading Frame 74) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C17orf76	empty	LRRC75A (Leucine Rich Repeat Containing 75A) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is LRRC75B.	empty	diff
C17orf79	empty	COPRS (Coordinator Of PRMT5, Differentiation Stimulator) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include histone binding.	Histone-binding protein required for histone H4 methyltransferase activity of PRMT5. Specifically required for histone H4 Arg-3 methylation mediated by PRMT5, but not histone H3 Arg-8 methylation, suggesting that it modulates the substrate specificity of PRMT5. Specifically interacts with the N-terminus of histone H4 but not with histone H3, suggesting that it acts by promoting the association between histone H4 and PRMT5. Involved in CCNE1 promoter repression. Plays a role in muscle cell differentiation by modulating the recruitment of PRMT5 to the promoter of genes involved in the coordination between cell cycle exit and muscle differentiation (By similarity).	diff
C17orf78	empty	C17orf78 (Chromosome 17 Open Reading Frame 78) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C17orf80	empty	C17orf80 (Chromosome 17 Open Reading Frame 80) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C17orf80 include lung cancer.	empty	same
C17orf82	empty	C17orf82 (Chromosome 17 Open Reading Frame 82) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C17orf81	empty	ELP5 (Elongator Acetyltransferase Complex Subunit 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are RNA Polymerase I Promoter Opening and RNA Polymerase I Promoter Opening.	Acts as subunit of the RNA polymerase II elongator complex, which is a histone acetyltransferase component of the RNA polymerase II (Pol II) holoenzyme and is involved in transcriptional elongation. Elongator may play a role in chromatin remodeling and is involved in acetylation of histones H3 and probably H4. Involved in cell migration (By similarity). May be involved in TP53-mediated transcriptional regulation.	diff
C17orf85	empty	C17orf85 (Chromosome 17 Open Reading Frame 85) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C17orf85 include vertebral artery insufficiency. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleotide binding.	empty	same
C17orf87	This gene encodes a transmembrane adaptor protein that is expressed in antigen-presenting cells and is localized in the immunologic synapse. The encoded protein is involved in major histocompatibility complex class II signal transduction and immune synapse formation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]	SCIMP (SLP Adaptor And CSK Interacting Membrane Protein) is a Protein Coding gene.	Lipid tetraspanin-associated transmembrane adapter/mediator involved in major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II signaling transduction. Required in generating the calcium response and enhancing ERK activity upon MHC-II stimulation.	diff
C17orf69	empty	CRHR1-IT1 (CRHR1 Intronic Transcript 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class.	empty	diff
C17orf86	empty	SNHG20 (Small Nucleolar RNA Host Gene 20) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C17orf88	empty	FAM215A (Family With Sequence Similarity 215, Member A (Non-Protein Coding)) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class. Diseases associated with FAM215A include conjunctivochalasis and keloids.	empty	diff
C17orf90	empty	OXLD1 (Oxidoreductase-Like Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C17orf89	empty	C17orf89 (Chromosome 17 Open Reading Frame 89) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C17orf91	empty	MIR22HG (MIR22 Host Gene) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class.	empty	diff
C17orf93	This gene is highly expressed in prostate, rectum, colon, and testis. This gene may produce a non-coding RNA or may encode a short protein that might localize to the nucleus. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2013]	PRAC2 (Prostate Cancer Susceptibility Candidate 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with PRAC2 include prostate cancer.	empty	diff
C17orf67	empty	C17orf67 (Chromosome 17 Open Reading Frame 67) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C17orf95	The protein encoded by this gene functions as a transcription factor regulator in the transcriptional pathway for human cognition. It is a partner of the alpha subunit of the GA-binding protein transcription factor. Mutations in this gene cause mild autosomal recessive intellectual disability. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]	METTL23 (Methyltransferase Like 23) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with METTL23 include mental retardation, autosomal recessive 44 and autosomal recessive non-syndromic intellectual disability. GO annotations related to this gene include methyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000267168.	Probable methyltransferase.	diff
C17orf77	empty	C17orf77 (Chromosome 17 Open Reading Frame 77) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C17orf97	empty	C17orf97 (Chromosome 17 Open Reading Frame 97) is a Protein Coding gene.	May be involved in ATE1-mediated N-terminal arginylation.	same
C17orf98	empty	C17orf98 (Chromosome 17 Open Reading Frame 98) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C18orf18	empty	LINC00526 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 526) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C18orf10	This gene encodes a protein that is a component of the neuronal polyglutamylase complex, which plays a role in post-translational addition of glutamate residues to C-terminal tubulin tails. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]	TPGS2 (Tubulin Polyglutamylase Complex Subunit 2) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C18orf1	empty	LDLRAD4 (Low Density Lipoprotein Receptor Class A Domain Containing 4) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is PMEPA1.	Functions as a negative regulator of TGF-beta signaling and thereby probably plays a role in cell proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis, motility, extracellular matrix production and immunosuppression. In the canonical TGF-beta pathway, ZFYVE9/SARA recruits the intracellular signal transducer and transcriptional modulators SMAD2 and SMAD3 to the TGF-beta receptor. Phosphorylated by the receptor, SMAD2 and SMAD3 then form a heteromeric complex with SMAD4 that translocates to the nucleus to regulate transcription. Through interaction with SMAD2 and SMAD3, LDLRAD4 may compete with ZFYVE9 and SMAD4 and prevent propagation of the intracellular signal.	diff
C18orf19	empty	FAM210A (Family With Sequence Similarity 210, Member A) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is FAM210B.	empty	diff
C18orf26	empty	DYNAP (Dynactin Associated Protein) is a Protein Coding gene.	Plays a role in the regulation of cell proliferation. Promotes activation of the AKT1 signaling pathway. Promotes phosphorylation of AKT1 at Ser-473.	diff
C18orf2	empty	empty	empty	same
C18orf25	empty	C18orf25 (Chromosome 18 Open Reading Frame 25) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C18orf20	empty	LINC00305 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 305) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C17orf96	empty	C17orf96 (Chromosome 17 Open Reading Frame 96) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C18orf32	empty	C18orf32 (Chromosome 18 Open Reading Frame 32) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include signal transducer activity.	May activate the NF-kappa-B signaling pathway.	same
C18orf34	empty	CCDC178 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 178) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C18orf22	empty	RBFA (Ribosome Binding Factor A (Putative)) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C18orf54	empty	C18orf54 (Chromosome 18 Open Reading Frame 54) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C18orf54 include inferior myocardial infarction and lung adenoma.	Might play a role in cell proliferation.	same
C17orf99	empty	C17orf99 (Chromosome 17 Open Reading Frame 99) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C18orf56	empty	TYMSOS (TYMS Opposite Strand) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C18orf45	empty	TMEM241 (Transmembrane Protein 241) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C18orf21	empty	C18orf21 (Chromosome 18 Open Reading Frame 21) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C19orf12	This gene encodes a small transmembrane protein. Mutations in this gene are a cause of neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation-4 (NBIA4), but the specific function of the encoded protein is unknown. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	C19orf12 (Chromosome 19 Open Reading Frame 12) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C19orf12 include neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation 4 and spastic paraplegia 43, autosomal recessive.	empty	same
C18orf16	empty	AQP4-AS1 (AQP4 Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class.	empty	diff
C18orf55	empty	TIMM21 (Translocase Of Inner Mitochondrial Membrane 21 Homolog (Yeast)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Mitochondrial Protein Import.	Participates in the translocation of transit peptide-containing proteins across the mitochondrial inner membrane. Also required for assembly of mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I and complex IV as component of some MITRAC complex, a cytochrome c oxidase (COX) assembly intermediate complex. TIM21 probably shuttles between the presequence translocase and respiratory-chain assembly intermediates in a process that promotes incorporation of early nuclear-encoded subunits into these complexes.	diff
C18orf8	This gene encodes a colon cancer associated protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]	C18orf8 (Chromosome 18 Open Reading Frame 8) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C18orf62	empty	SMIM21 (Small Integral Membrane Protein 21) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C19orf10	The protein encoded by this gene was previously thought to support proliferation of lymphoid cells and was considered an interleukin. However, this activity has not been reproducible and the function of this protein is currently unknown. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	MYDGF (Myeloid-Derived Growth Factor) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are PEDF Induced Signaling and Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein.	Bone marrow-derived monocyte and paracrine-acting protein that promotes cardiac myocyte survival and adaptive angiogenesis for cardiac protection and/or repair after myocardial infarction (MI). Stimulates endothelial cell proliferation through a MAPK1/3-, STAT3- and CCND1-mediated signaling pathway. Inhibits cardiac myocyte apoptosis in a PI3K/AKT-dependent signaling pathway (By similarity). Involved in endothelial cell proliferation and angiogenesis (PubMed:25581518).	diff
C19orf23	empty	CIRBP-AS1 (CIRBP Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class.	empty	diff
C19orf25	empty	C19orf25 (Chromosome 19 Open Reading Frame 25) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C19orf22	empty	R3HDM4 (R3H Domain Containing 4) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleic acid binding.	empty	diff
C19orf20	empty	TPGS1 (Tubulin Polyglutamylase Complex Subunit 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include microtubule binding and tubulin-glutamic acid ligase activity.	May act in the targeting of the tubulin polyglutamylase complex. Required for the development of the spermatid flagellum (By similarity).	diff
C19orf24	empty	C19orf24 (Chromosome 19 Open Reading Frame 24) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C19orf26	empty	C19orf26 (Chromosome 19 Open Reading Frame 26) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C19orf26 include morgagni cataract.	empty	same
C19orf28	empty	MFSD12 (Major Facilitator Superfamily Domain Containing 12) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C19orf29	empty	CACTIN (Cactin, Spliceosome C Complex Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene.	Involved in the regulation of innate immune response. Acts as negative regulator of Toll-like receptor and interferon-regulatory factor (IRF) signaling pathways. Contributes to the regulation of transcriptional activation of NF-kappa-B target genes in response to endogenous proinflammatory stimuli. May play a role during early embryonic development. Probably involved in pre-mRNA splicing.	diff
C19orf2	This gene encodes member of the prefoldin family of molecular chaperones. The encoded protein functions as a scaffolding protein and plays roles in ubiquitination and transcription, in part though interactions with the RNA polymerase II subunit RPB5. This gene may play a role in multiple malignancies including ovarian cancer and hepatocellular carcinoma. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene, and a pseudogene of this gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 22. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]	URI1 (URI1, Prefoldin-Like Chaperone) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with URI1 include hepatocellular carcinoma. Among its related pathways are Translational Control and Apoptosis and Autophagy. GO annotations related to this gene include chromatin binding and protein phosphatase inhibitor activity.	Involved in gene transcription regulation. Acts as a transcriptional repressor in concert with the corepressor UXT to regulate androgen receptor (AR) transcription. May act as a tumor suppressor to repress AR-mediated gene transcription and to inhibit anchorage-independent growth in prostate cancer cells. Required for cell survival in ovarian cancer cells. Together with UXT, associates with chromatin to the NKX3-1 promoter region. Antagonizes transcriptional modulation via hepatitis B virus X protein	diff
C19orf21	empty	MISP (Mitotic Spindle Positioning) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding.	Plays a role in mitotic spindle orientation and mitotic progression. Regulates the distribution of dynactin at the cell cortex in a PLK1-dependent manner, thus stabilizing cortical and astral microtubule attachments required for proper mitotic spindle positioning. May link microtubules to the actin cytospkeleton and focal adhesions. May be required for directed cell migration and centrosome orientation. May also be necessary for proper stacking of the Golgi apparatus.	diff
C19orf30	empty	MIR7-3HG (MIR7-3 Host Gene) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C19orf35	empty	C19orf35 (Chromosome 19 Open Reading Frame 35) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C19orf34	empty	CSNK1G2-AS1 (CSNK1G2 Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class.	empty	diff
C19orf18	empty	C19orf18 (Chromosome 19 Open Reading Frame 18) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C19orf39	empty	SWSAP1 (SWIM-Type Zinc Finger 7 Associated Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase activity and single-stranded DNA binding.	ATPase which is preferentially stimulated by single-stranded DNA and is involved in homologous recombination repair (HRR). Has a DNA-binding activity which is independent of its ATPase activity.	diff
C19orf38	empty	C19orf38 (Chromosome 19 Open Reading Frame 38) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C19orf33	empty	C19orf33 (Chromosome 19 Open Reading Frame 33) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include double-stranded DNA binding and single-stranded DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000267748.	empty	same
C19orf41	empty	IZUMO2 (IZUMO Family Member 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Reproduction and Reproduction.	empty	diff
C19orf36	empty	IZUMO4 (IZUMO Family Member 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Reproduction and Reproduction.	empty	diff
C19orf43	empty	C19orf43 (Chromosome 19 Open Reading Frame 43) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C19orf44	empty	C19orf44 (Chromosome 19 Open Reading Frame 44) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C19orf45	empty	C19orf45 (Chromosome 19 Open Reading Frame 45) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C19orf42	empty	SMIM7 (Small Integral Membrane Protein 7) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000268790.	empty	diff
C19orf48	empty	C19orf48 (Chromosome 19 Open Reading Frame 48) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C19orf48 include intraocular lymphoma and temporal lobe epilepsy.	empty	same
C19orf40	FAAP24 is a component of the Fanconi anemia (FA) core complex (see MIM 227650), which plays a crucial role in DNA damage response (Ciccia et al., 2007 [PubMed 17289582]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	C19orf40 (Chromosome 19 Open Reading Frame 40) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C19orf40 include aplastic anemia. Among its related pathways are DNA Repair and Fanconi anemia pathway (KEGG). GO annotations related to this gene include chromatin binding.	Plays a role in DNA repair through recruitment of the FA core complex to damaged DNA. Regulates FANCD2 monoubiquitination upon DNA damage. Induces chromosomal instability as well as hypersensitivity to DNA cross-linking agents, when repressed. Targets FANCM/FAAP24 complex to the DNA, preferentially to single strand DNA.	same
C19orf52	empty	C19orf52 (Chromosome 19 Open Reading Frame 52) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C19orf52 include malaria.	empty	same
C19orf47	empty	C19orf47 (Chromosome 19 Open Reading Frame 47) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C19orf51	The protein encoded by this gene is required for the assembly of axonemal inner and outer dynein arms and plays a role in assembling dynein complexes for transport into cilia. Defects in this gene are a cause of primary ciliary dyskinesia type 2 (CILD2). Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]	DNAAF3 (Dynein, Axonemal, Assembly Factor 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DNAAF3 include ciliary dyskinesia, primary, 2 and primary ciliary dyskinesia 2: dnaaf3-related primary ciliary dyskinesia. Among its related pathways are Tyrosine Kinases / Adaptors and Guidance Cues and Growth Cone Motility. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000267110.	Required for the assembly of axonemal inner and outer dynein arms. Involved in preassembly of dyneins into complexes before their transport into cilia.	diff
C19orf54	empty	C19orf54 (Chromosome 19 Open Reading Frame 54) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C19orf55	empty	PROSER3 (Proline And Serine Rich 3) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C19orf50	empty	KXD1 (KxDL Motif Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	Involved in endosomal cargo sorting.	diff
C19orf53	empty	C19orf53 (Chromosome 19 Open Reading Frame 53) is a Protein Coding gene.	May have a potential role in hypercalcemia of malignancy.	same
C19orf46	empty	SYNE4 (Spectrin Repeat Containing, Nuclear Envelope Family Member 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with SYNE4 include deafness, autosomal recessive 76 and autosomal recessive non-syndromic sensorineural deafness type dfnb. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding.	As a component of the LINC (LInker of Nucleoskeleton and Cytoskeleton) complex, involved in the connection between the nuclear lamina and the cytoskeleton. The nucleocytoplasmic interactions established by the LINC complex play an important role in the transmission of mechanical forces across the nuclear envelope and in nuclear movement and positioning (By similarity). Behaves as a kinesin cargo, providing a functional binding site for kinesin-1 at the nuclear envelope. Hence may contribute to the establishment of secretory epithelial morphology by promoting kinesin-dependent apical migration of the centrosome and Golgi apparatus and basal localization of the nucleus (By similarity).	diff
C19orf60	empty	C19orf60 (Chromosome 19 Open Reading Frame 60) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C19orf57	empty	C19orf57 (Chromosome 19 Open Reading Frame 57) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C19orf62	empty	BABAM1 (BRISC And BRCA1 A Complex Member 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle / Checkpoint Control and Cell Cycle / Checkpoint Control. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000269307.	Component of the BRCA1-A complex, a complex that specifically recognizes Lys-63-linked ubiquitinated histones H2A and H2AX at DNA lesions sites, leading to target the BRCA1-BARD1 heterodimer to sites of DNA damage at double-strand breaks (DSBs). The BRCA1-A complex also possesses deubiquitinase activity that specifically removes Lys-63-linked ubiquitin on histones H2A and H2AX. In the BRCA1-A complex, it is required for the complex integrity and its localization at DSBs. Probably also plays a role as a component of the BRISC complex, a multiprotein complex that specifically cleaves Lys-63-linked ubiquitin. In these 2 complexes, it is probably required to maintain the stability of BRE/BRCC45 and help the Lys-63-linked deubiquitinase activity mediated by BRCC3/BRCC36 component.	diff
C19orf70	empty	C19orf70 (Chromosome 19 Open Reading Frame 70) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C19orf56	empty	WDR83OS (WD Repeat Domain 83 Opposite Strand) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C19orf63	empty	EMC10 (ER Membrane Protein Complex Subunit 10) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C19orf73	empty	C19orf73 (Chromosome 19 Open Reading Frame 73) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C19orf59	This gene encodes a single-pass transmembrane protein. Based on its expression pattern, it is speculated to be involved in regulating mast cell differentiation or immune responses. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	MCEMP1 (Mast Cell-Expressed Membrane Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C19orf6	empty	TMEM259 (Transmembrane Protein 259) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C19orf69	empty	ERICH4 (Glutamate-Rich 4) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C19orf61	empty	SMG9 (SMG9 Nonsense Mediated MRNA Decay Factor) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and Influenza Viral RNA Transcription and Replication. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding.	Involved in nonsense-mediated decay (NMD) of mRNAs containing premature stop codons. Is recruited by release factors to stalled ribosomes together with SMG1 and SMG8 (forming the SMG1C protein kinase complex) and, in the SMG1C complex, is required for the efficient association between SMG1 and SMG8.	diff
C19orf77	empty	SMIM24 (Small Integral Membrane Protein 24) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C19orf66	empty	C19orf66 (Chromosome 19 Open Reading Frame 66) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C19orf76	empty	ADM5 (Adrenomedullin 5 (Putative)) is a Protein Coding gene.	Probable non-functional remnant of adrenomedullin-5.	diff
C1D	The protein encoded by this gene is a DNA binding and apoptosis-inducing protein and is localized in the nucleus. It is also a Rac3-interacting protein which acts as a corepressor for the thyroid hormone receptor. This protein is thought to regulate TRAX/Translin complex formation. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein. Multiple pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosome 10.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	C1D (C1D Nuclear Receptor Corepressor) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and ligand-dependent nuclear receptor binding.	Plays a role in the recruitment of the RNA exosome complex to pre-rRNA to mediate the 3-5 end processing of the 5.8S rRNA; this function may include MPHOSPH6. Can activate PRKDC not only in the presence of linear DNA but also in the presence of supercoiled DNA. Can induce apoptosis in a p53/TP53 dependent manner. May regulate the TRAX/TSN complex formation. Potentiates transcriptional repression by NR1D1 and THRB (By similarity).	same
C1QA	This gene encodes a major constituent of the human complement subcomponent C1q. C1q associates with C1r and C1s in order to yield the first component of the serum complement system. Deficiency of C1q has been associated with lupus erythematosus and glomerulonephritis. C1q is composed of 18 polypeptide chains: six A-chains, six B-chains, and six C-chains. Each chain contains a collagen-like region located near the N terminus and a C-terminal globular region. The A-, B-, and C-chains are arranged in the order A-C-B on chromosome 1. This gene encodes the A-chain polypeptide of human complement subcomponent C1q. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	C1QA (Complement Component 1, Q Subcomponent, A Chain) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C1QA include cutaneous lupus erythematosus and subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus. Among its related pathways are Complement and coagulation cascades and Complement and coagulation cascades. An important paralog of this gene is COL8A1.	C1q associates with the proenzymes C1r and C1s to yield C1, the first component of the serum complement system. The collagen-like regions of C1q interact with the Ca(2+)-dependent C1r(2)C1s(2) proenzyme complex, and efficient activation of C1 takes place on interaction of the globular heads of C1q with the Fc regions of IgG or IgM antibody present in immune complexes	same
C1GALT1C1	This gene encodes a type II transmembrane protein that is similar to the core 1 beta1,3-galactosyltransferase 1, which catalyzes the synthesis of the core-1 structure, also known as Thomsen-Friedenreich antigen, on O-linked glycans. This gene product lacks the galactosyltransferase activity itself, but instead acts as a molecular chaperone required for the folding, stability and full activity of the core 1 beta1,3-galactosyltransferase 1. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Tn syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]	C1GALT1C1 (C1GALT1-Specific Chaperone 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C1GALT1C1 include tn polyagglutination syndrome, somatic and iga glomerulonephritis. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein. GO annotations related to this gene include polypeptide N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is C1GALT1.	Probable chaperone required for the generation of 1 O-glycan Gal-beta1-3GalNAc-alpha1-Ser/Thr (T antigen), which is a precursor for many extended O-glycans in glycoproteins. Probably acts as a specific molecular chaperone assisting the folding/stability of core 1 beta-3-galactosyltransferase (C1GALT1).	same
C19orf75	empty	SIGLECL1 (SIGLEC Family Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C1GALT1	The protein encoded by this gene generates the common core 1 O-glycan structure, Gal-beta-1-3GalNAc-R, by the transfer of Gal from UDP-Gal to GalNAc-alpha-1-R. Core 1 is a precursor for many extended mucin-type O-glycans on cell surface and secreted glycoproteins. Studies in mice suggest that this gene plays a key role in thrombopoiesis and kidney homeostasis.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]	C1GALT1 (Core 1 Synthase, Glycoprotein-N-Acetylgalactosamine 3-Beta-Galactosyltransferase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C1GALT1 include iga glomerulonephritis. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein. GO annotations related to this gene include glycoprotein-N-acetylgalactosamine 3-beta-galactosyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is C1GALT1C1.	Glycosyltransferase that generates the core 1 O-glycan Gal-beta1-3GalNAc-alpha1-Ser/Thr (T antigen), which is a precursor for many extended O-glycans in glycoproteins. Plays a central role in many processes, such as angiogenesis, thrombopoiesis and kidney homeostasis development	same
C1QBP	The human complement subcomponent C1q associates with C1r and C1s in order to yield the first component of the serum complement system. The protein encoded by this gene is known to bind to the globular heads of C1q molecules and inhibit C1 activation. This protein has also been identified as the p32 subunit of pre-mRNA splicing factor SF2, as well as a hyaluronic acid-binding protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	C1QBP (Complement Component 1, Q Subcomponent Binding Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Hemostasis and Formation of Fibrin Clot (Clotting Cascade). GO annotations related to this gene include transcription factor binding and mRNA binding.	Is believed to be a multifunctional and multicompartmental protein involved in inflammation and infection processes, ribosome biogenesis, regulation of apoptosis, transcriptional regulation and pre-mRNA splicing. At the cell surface is thought to act as an endothelial receptor for plasma proteins of the complement and kallikrein-kinin cascades. Putative receptor for C1q; specifically binds to the globular "heads" of C1q thus inhibiting C1; may perform the receptor function through a complex with C1qR/CD93. In complex with cytokeratin-1/KRT1 is a high affinity receptor for kininogen-1/HMWK. Can also bind other plasma proteins, such as coagulation factor XII leading to its autoactivation. May function to bind initially fluid kininogen-1 to the cell membrane. The secreted form may enhance both extrinsic and intrinsic coagulation pathways. It is postulated that the cell surface form requires docking with transmembrane proteins for downstream signaling which might be specific for a cell-type or response. By acting as C1q receptor is involved in chemotaxis of immature dendritic cells and neutrophils and is proposed to signal through CD209/DC-SIGN on immature dendritic cells, through integrin alpha-4/beta-1 during trophoblast invasion of the decidua, and through integrin beta-1 during endothelial cell adhesion and spreading. Signaling involved in inhibition of innate immune response is implicating the PI3K-AKT/PKB pathway. In mitochondrial translation may be involved in formation of functional 55S mitoribosomes; the function seems to involve its RNA-binding activity. May be involved in the nucleolar ribosome maturation process; the function may involve the exchange of FBL for RRP1 in the association with pre-ribosome particles. Involved in regulation of RNA splicing by inhibiting the RNA-binding capacity of SRSF1 and its phosphorylation. Is required for the nuclear translocation of splicing factor U2AF1L4. Involved in regulation of CDKN2A- and HRK-mediated apoptosis. Stabilizes mitochondrial CDKN2A isoform smARF. May be involved in regulation of FOXC1 transcriptional activity and NFY/CCAAT-binding factor complex-mediated transcription. In infection processes acts as an attachment site for microbial proteins, including Listeria monocytogenes internalin B and Staphylococcus aureus protein A. May play a role in antibacterial defense as it can bind to cell surface hyaluronan and inhibit Streptococcus pneumoniae hyaluronate lyase. Involved in replication of Rubella virus. May be involved in modulation of the immune response; ligation by HCV core protein is resulting in suppresion of interleukin-12 production in monocyte-derived dendritic cells. Involved in regulation of antiviral response by inhibiting DDX58- and IFIH1-mediated signaling pathways probably involving its association with MAVS after viral infection. Involved in HIV-1 replication, presumably by contributing to splicing of viral RNA.	same
C1QL2	empty	C1QL2 (Complement Component 1, Q Subcomponent-Like 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is C1QL4.	May regulate the number of excitatory synapses that are formed on hippocampus neurons. Has no effect on inhibitory synapses (By similarity).	same
C1QL4	empty	C1QL4 (Complement Component 1, Q Subcomponent-Like 4) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CBLN3.	May regulate the number of excitatory synapses that are formed on hippocampus neurons. Has no effect on inhibitory synapses (By similarity). May inhibit adipocyte differentiation at an early stage of the process (By similarity).	same
C1QL3	empty	C1QL3 (Complement Component 1, Q Subcomponent-Like 3) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is C1QL4.	May regulate the number of excitatory synapses that are formed on hippocampus neurons. Has no effect on inhibitory synapses (By similarity). Plays a role in glucose homeostasis. Via AMPK signaling pathway, stimulates glucose uptake in adipocytes, myotubes and hepatocytes and enhances insulin-stimulated glucose uptake. In a hepatoma cell line, reduces the expression of gluconeogenic enzymes G6PC and PCK1 and hence decreases de novo glucose production (By similarity).	same
C1QTNF4	empty	C1QTNF4 (C1q And Tumor Necrosis Factor Related Protein 4) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include cytokine activity. An important paralog of this gene is COL8A1.	May act as a pro-inflammatory cytokine, that induces the activation of NF-kappa-B signaling pathway and up-regulates IL6 production.	same
C1QTNF2	empty	C1QTNF2 (C1q And Tumor Necrosis Factor Related Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and receptor binding. An important paralog of this gene is COL8A1.	empty	same
C1QTNF9	empty	C1QTNF9 (C1q And Tumor Necrosis Factor Related Protein 9) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include hormone activity. An important paralog of this gene is COL8A1.	Probable adipokine. Activates AMPK, AKT, and p44/42 MAPK signaling pathways (By similarity).	same
C1QTNF6	empty	C1QTNF6 (C1q And Tumor Necrosis Factor Related Protein 6) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is COL8A1.	empty	same
C1QTNF9B	empty	C1QTNF9B (C1q And Tumor Necrosis Factor Related Protein 9B) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is COL8A1.	empty	same
C1RL	empty	C1RL (Complement Component 1, R Subcomponent-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C1RL include cll/sll and ovary adenocarcinoma. GO annotations related to this gene include serine-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is HP.	Mediates the proteolytic cleavage of HP/haptoglobin in the endoplasmic reticulum.	same
C1QTNF7	empty	C1QTNF7 (C1q And Tumor Necrosis Factor Related Protein 7) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is COL8A1.	empty	same
C1QC	This gene encodes a major constituent of the human complement subcomponent C1q. C1q associates with C1r and C1s in order to yield the first component of the serum complement system. A deficiency in C1q has been associated with lupus erythematosus and glomerulonephritis. C1q is composed of 18 polypeptide chains: six A-chains, six B-chains, and six C-chains. Each chain contains a collagen-like region located near the N-terminus, and a C-terminal globular region. The A-, B-, and C-chains are arranged in the order A-C-B on chromosome 1. This gene encodes the C-chain polypeptide of human complement subcomponent C1q. Alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	C1QC (Complement Component 1, Q Subcomponent, C Chain) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C1QC include c1q deficiency and c2 deficiency. Among its related pathways are Complement and coagulation cascades and Complement and coagulation cascades. An important paralog of this gene is COL8A1.	C1q associates with the proenzymes C1r and C1s to yield C1, the first component of the serum complement system. The collagen-like regions of C1q interact with the Ca(2+)-dependent C1r(2)C1s(2) proenzyme complex, and efficient activation of C1 takes place on interaction of the globular heads of C1q with the Fc regions of IgG or IgM antibody present in immune complexes	same
C1QB	This gene encodes a major constituent of the human complement subcomponent C1q. C1q associates with C1r and C1s in order to yield the first component of the serum complement system. Deficiency of C1q has been associated with lupus erythematosus and glomerulonephritis. C1q is composed of 18 polypeptide chains: six A-chains, six B-chains, and six C-chains. Each chain contains a collagen-like region located near the N terminus and a C-terminal globular region. The A-, B-, and C-chains are arranged in the order A-C-B on chromosome 1. This gene encodes the B-chain polypeptide of human complement subcomponent C1q [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	C1QB (Complement Component 1, Q Subcomponent, B Chain) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C1QB include c1q deficiency and c2 deficiency. Among its related pathways are Complement and coagulation cascades and Complement and coagulation cascades. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity. An important paralog of this gene is COL8A1.	C1q associates with the proenzymes C1r and C1s to yield C1, the first component of the serum complement system. The collagen-like regions of C1q interact with the Ca(2+)-dependent C1r(2)C1s(2) proenzyme complex, and efficient activation of C1 takes place on interaction of the globular heads of C1q with the Fc regions of IgG or IgM antibody present in immune complexes	same
C1R	empty	C1R (Complement Component 1, R Subcomponent) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C1R include c1r/c1s deficiency, combined and c1s deficiency. Among its related pathways are Complement and coagulation cascades and Complement and coagulation cascades. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and serine-type peptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is HP.	C1r B chain is a serine protease that combines with C1q and C1s to form C1, the first component of the classical pathway of the complement system	same
C1orf100	empty	C1orf100 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 100) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C19orf71	empty	C19orf71 (Chromosome 19 Open Reading Frame 71) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C1orf104	empty	RUSC1-AS1 (RUSC1 Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class.	empty	diff
C1orf101	empty	C1orf101 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 101) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CATSPERD.	empty	same
C1QTNF8	empty	C1QTNF8 (C1q And Tumor Necrosis Factor Related Protein 8) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is COL8A1.	empty	same
C1orf105	empty	C1orf105 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 105) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C1QTNF1	empty	C1QTNF1 (C1q And Tumor Necrosis Factor Related Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. An important paralog of this gene is COL8A1.	empty	same
C1orf109	empty	C1orf109 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 109) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C1orf103	empty	LRIF1 (Ligand Dependent Nuclear Receptor Interacting Factor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Transcriptional Regulatory Network in Embryonic Stem Cell. GO annotations related to this gene include retinoic acid receptor binding.	Represses the ligand-induced transcriptional activity of retinoic acid receptor alpha (RARA). This repression may occur through direct recruitment of histone deacetylases.	diff
C1orf110	empty	C1orf110 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 110) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C1orf111	empty	C1orf111 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 111) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C1orf112	empty	C1orf112 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 112) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C1orf113	empty	SH3D21 (SH3 Domain Containing 21) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CD2AP.	empty	diff
C1orf114	empty	CCDC181 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 181) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C1QTNF3	empty	C1QTNF3 (C1q And Tumor Necrosis Factor Related Protein 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is C1QL4.	empty	same
C1orf115	empty	C1orf115 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 115) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C1QL1	empty	C1QL1 (Complement Component 1, Q Subcomponent-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is C1QL4.	May regulate the number of excitatory synapses that are formed on hippocampus neurons. Has no effect on inhibitory synapses (By similarity).	same
C1orf116	empty	C1orf116 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 116) is a Protein Coding gene.	Putative androgen-specific receptor.	same
C1S	This gene encodes a serine protease, which is a major constituent of the human complement subcomponent C1. C1s associates with two other complement components C1r and C1q in order to yield the first component of the serum complement system. Defects in this gene are the cause of selective C1s deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]	C1S (Complement Component 1, S Subcomponent) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C1S include c1s deficiency and capillary leak syndrome. Among its related pathways are Complement and coagulation cascades and Complement and coagulation cascades. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and serine-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is HP.	C1s B chain is a serine protease that combines with C1q and C1r to form C1, the first component of the classical pathway of the complement system. C1r activates C1s so that it can, in turn, activate C2 and C4	same
C1orf123	empty	C1orf123 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 123) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C1orf125	empty	AXDND1 (Axonemal Dynein Light Chain Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C1orf107	empty	DIEXF (Digestive Organ Expansion Factor Homolog (Zebrafish)) is a Protein Coding gene.	Regulates the p53 pathway to control the expansion growth of digestive organs.	diff
C1orf124	The protein encoded by this gene may play a role in DNA repair during replication of damaged DNA. This protein recruits valosin containing protein (p97) to stalled DNA replication forks where it may prevent excessive translesional DNA synthesis and limit the number of DNA-damage induced mutations. It may also be involved in replication-related G2/M-checkpoint regulation. Deficiency of a similar protein in mouse causes chromosomal instability and progeroid phenotypes. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Ruijs-Aalfs syndrome (RJALS). Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2015]	SPRTN (SprT-Like N-Terminal Domain) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with SPRTN include ruijs-aalfs syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin binding and K63-linked polyubiquitin binding.	Regulator of UV-induced DNA damage response: acts as a reader of ubiquitinated PCNA that enhances RAD18-mediated PCNA ubiquitination and translesion DNA synthesis (TLS). Recruited to sites of UV damage and interacts with ubiquitinated PCNA and RAD18, the E3 ubiquitin ligase that monoubiquitinates PCNA. Facilitates chromatin association of RAD18 and is required for efficient PCNA monoubiquitination, promoting a feed-forward loop to enhance PCNA ubiquitination and translesion DNA synthesis. Acts as a regulator of TLS by recruiting VCP/p97 to sites of DNA damage, possibly leading to extraction of DNA polymerase eta (POLH) by VCP/p97 to prevent excessive translesion DNA synthesis and limit the incidence of mutations induced by DNA damage.	diff
C1orf106	empty	C1orf106 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 106) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is NF2.	empty	same
C1orf127	empty	C1orf127 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 127) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C1orf133	empty	SERTAD4-AS1 (SERTAD4 Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class.	empty	diff
C1orf131	empty	C1orf131 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 131) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C1orf129	empty	MROH9 (Maestro Heat-Like Repeat Family Member 9) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C1orf130	empty	NCMAP (Noncompact Myelin Associated Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include structural constituent of myelin sheath.	Plays a role in myelin formation.	diff
C1orf128	empty	PITHD1 (PITH (C-Terminal Proteasome-Interacting Domain Of Thioredoxin-Like) Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C1orf126	empty	TMEM51-AS1 is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class.	empty	diff
C1orf135	empty	AUNIP (Aurora Kinase A And Ninein Interacting Protein) is a Protein Coding gene.	Required for the dynamic movement of AURKA at the centrosomes and spindle apparatus during the cell cycle.	diff
C1orf146	empty	C1orf146 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 146) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C1orf141	empty	C1orf141 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 141) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C1orf144	empty	SZRD1 (SUZ RNA Binding Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C1orf152	empty	PFN1P2 (Profilin 1 Pseudogene 2) is a Pseudogene.	empty	diff
C1orf122	empty	C1orf122 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 122) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C1orf150	This gene encodes a protein thought to be a signaling molecule associated with germinal centers, the sites of proliferation and differentiation of mature B lymphocytes. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2013]	GCSAML (Germinal Center-Associated, Signaling And Motility-Like) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C1orf151	empty	MINOS1 (Mitochondrial Inner Membrane Organizing System 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	Component of the MICOS complex, a large protein complex of the mitochondrial inner membrane that plays crucial roles in the maintenance of crista junctions, inner membrane architecture, and formation of contact sites to the outer membrane.	diff
C1orf158	empty	C1orf158 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 158) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C1orf156	empty	METTL18 (Methyltransferase Like 18) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein methyltransferase activity.	Probable histidine methyltransferase.	diff
C1orf163	empty	COA7 (Cytochrome C Oxidase Assembly Factor 7 (Putative)) is a Protein Coding gene.	Required for assembly of mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I and complex IV.	diff
C1orf159	empty	C1orf159 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 159) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C1orf161	empty	MAB21L3 (Mab-21-Like 3 (C. Elegans)) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is MAB21L1.	empty	diff
C1orf173	empty	ERICH3 (Glutamate-Rich 3) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C1orf168	empty	C1orf168 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 168) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C1orf174	empty	C1orf174 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 174) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C1orf170	empty	PERM1 (PPARGC1 And ESRR Induced Regulator, Muscle 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	Regulates the expression of selective PPARGC1A/B and ESRRA/B/G target genes with roles in glucose and lipid metabolism, energy transfer, contractile function, muscle mitochondrial biogenesis and oxidative capacity. Required for the efficient induction of MT-CO2, MT-CO3, COX4I1, TFB1M, TFB2M, POLRMT and SIRT3 by PPARGC1A. Positively regulates the PPARGC1A/ESRRG-induced expression of CKMT2, TNNI3 and SLC2A4 and negatively regulates the PPARGC1A/ESRRG-induced expression of PDK4.	diff
C1orf14	empty	SHCBP1L (SHC SH2-Domain Binding Protein 1-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is SHCBP1.	empty	diff
C1orf175	empty	MROH7 (Maestro Heat-Like Repeat Family Member 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with MROH7 include colorectal cancer. An important paralog of this gene is MROH7-TTC4.	empty	diff
C1orf172	empty	KDF1 (Keratinocyte Differentiation Factor 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	Plays a role in the regulation of the epidermis formation during early development. Required both as an inhibitor of basal cell proliferation and a promoter of differentiation of basal progenitor cell progeny (By similarity).	diff
C1orf180	empty	LINC01555 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 1555) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class.	empty	diff
C1orf162	empty	C1orf162 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 162) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C1orf183	empty	FAM212B (Family With Sequence Similarity 212, Member B) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is FAM212A.	empty	diff
C1orf182	empty	TSACC (TSSK6 Activating Co-Chaperone) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include chaperone binding.	Co-chaperone that facilitates HSP-mediated activation of TSSK6.	diff
C1orf185	empty	C1orf185 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 185) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C1orf186	empty	C1orf186 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 186) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C1orf189	empty	C1orf189 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 189) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C1orf187	empty	DRAXIN (Dorsal Inhibitory Axon Guidance Protein) is a Protein Coding gene.	Chemorepulsive axon guidance protein required for the development of spinal cord and forebrain commissures. Acts as a chemorepulsive guidance protein for commissural axons during development. Able to inhibit or repel neurite outgrowth from dorsal spinal cord. Inhibits the stabilization of cytosolic beta-catenin (CTNNB1) via its interaction with LRP6, thereby acting as an antagonist of Wnt signaling pathway.	diff
C1orf190	empty	LURAP1 (Leucine Rich Adaptor Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is LURAP1L.	Acts as an activator of the canonical NF-kappa-B pathway and drive the production of proinflammatory cytokines. Promotes the antigen (Ag)-presenting and priming function of dendritic cells via the canonical NF-kappa-B pathway. In concert with MYO18A and CDC42BPA/CDC42BPB, is involved in modulating lamellar actomyosin retrograde flow that is crucial to cell protrusion and migration. Activates CDC42BPA/CDC42BPB and targets it to actomyosin through its interaction with MYO18A, leading to MYL9/MLC2 phosphorylation and MYH9/MYH10-dependent actomyosin assembly in the lamella (By similarity).	diff
C1orf200	empty	PIK3CD-AS1 (PIK3CD Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class.	empty	diff
C1orf201	empty	STPG1 (Sperm-Tail PG-Rich Repeat Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	May positively contribute to the induction of apoptosis triggered by O(6)-methylguanine.	diff
C1orf198	empty	C1orf198 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 198) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C1orf210	empty	C1orf210 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 210) is a Protein Coding gene.	May be involved in membrane trafficking between endosomes and plasma membrane	same
C1orf203	empty	ATP1A1-AS1 (ATP1A1 Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class.	empty	diff
C1orf213	empty	ZNF436-AS1 (ZNF436 Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class.	empty	diff
C1orf21	empty	C1orf21 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 21) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C1orf212	empty	SMIM12 (Small Integral Membrane Protein 12) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C1orf220	empty	C1orf220 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 220) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C1orf194	empty	C1orf194 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 194) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C1orf226	empty	C1orf226 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 226) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C1orf192	empty	CFAP126 (Cilia And Flagella Associated Protein 126) is a Protein Coding gene.	Acts as a regulator of cilium basal body docking and positioning in mono- and multiciliated cells. Regulates basal body docking and cilia formation in multiciliated lung cells. Regulates kinocilium positioning and stereocilia bundle morphogenesis in the inner ear.	diff
C1orf227	empty	SPATA45 (Spermatogenesis Associated 45) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C1orf223	empty	TEX38 (Testis Expressed 38) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C1orf229	empty	C1orf229 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 229) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C1orf228	empty	C1orf228 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 228) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C1orf204	empty	C1orf204 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 204) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is VSIG8.	empty	same
C1orf230	empty	RIIAD1 (Regulatory Subunit Of Type II PKA R-Subunit (RIIa) Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Endothelin. GO annotations related to this gene include cAMP-dependent protein kinase regulator activity.	empty	diff
C1orf35	empty	C1orf35 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 35) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C1orf35 include multiple myeloma and myeloma.	empty	same
C1orf26	empty	SWT1 (SWT1 RNA Endoribonuclease Homolog (S. Cerevisiae)) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C1orf27	empty	C1orf27 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 27) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include oxidoreductase activity.	May play a role in the trafficking of a subset of G-protein coupled receptors.	same
C1orf38	empty	THEMIS2 (Thymocyte Selection Associated Family Member 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with THEMIS2 include endometrial adenocarcinoma.	May constitute a control point in macrophage inflammatory response, promoting LPS-induced TNF production.	diff
C1orf49	empty	TEX35 (Testis Expressed 35) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C1orf31	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome c oxidase subunit 6B family. The encoded protein associates with cytochrome c oxidase may act has an cytochrome c oxidase mitochondrial respiratory complex VI assembly factor. Mutations in this gene may be associated with fatal infantile cardiomyopathy. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	COA6 (Cytochrome C Oxidase Assembly Factor 6) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include cytochrome-c oxidase activity.	empty	diff
C1orf216	empty	C1orf216 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 216) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C1orf52	empty	C1orf52 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 52) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C1orf53	empty	C1orf53 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 53) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C1orf51	empty	CIART (Circadian Associated Repressor Of Transcription) is a Protein Coding gene.	Transcriptional repressor which forms a negative regulatory component of the circadian clock and acts independently of the circadian transcriptional repressors: CRY1, CRY2 and BHLHE41. In a histone deacetylase-dependent manner represses the transcriptional activator activity of the CLOCK-ARNTL/BMAL1 heterodimer. Abrogates the interaction of ARNTL/BMAL1 with the transcriptional coactivator CREBBP and can repress the histone acetyl-transferase activity of the CLOCK-ARNTL/BMAL1 heterodimer, reducing histone acetylation of its target genes. Rhythmically binds the E-box elements (5-CACGTG-3) on circadian gene promoters and its occupancy shows circadian oscillation antiphasic to ARNTL/BMAL1. Interacts with the glucocorticoid receptor (NR3C1) and contributes to the repressive function in the glucocorticoid response (By similarity).	diff
C1orf43	empty	C1orf43 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 43) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C1orf43 include hepatitis c and hepatitis c virus. GO annotations related to this gene include coenzyme binding and oxidoreductase activity, acting on the CH-OH group of donors, NAD or NADP as acceptor.	empty	same
C1orf50	empty	C1orf50 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 50) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C1orf25	This gene encodes a protein that has some similarity to N2,N2-dimethylguanosine tRNA methyltransferase from other organisms. Studies of the mouse ortholog have shown that this protein plays a role in motor coordination and exploratory behavior, and it may also be involved in modulating postnatal neuronal functions. Alternatively spliced transcripts have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]	TRMT1L (TRNA Methyltransferase 1 Homolog (S. Cerevisiae)-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include tRNA binding and tRNA (guanine-N2-)-methyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is TRMT1.	May play a role in motor coordination and exploratory behavior.	diff
C1orf55	empty	SDE2 (SDE2 Telomere Maintenance Homolog (S. Pombe)) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is SF3A3.	empty	diff
C1orf54	empty	C1orf54 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 54) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C1orf64	empty	C1orf64 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 64) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C1orf64 include colorectal cancer.	empty	same
C1orf63	empty	RSRP1 (Arginine/Serine-Rich Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C1orf61	empty	C1orf61 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 61) is a Protein Coding gene.	May play a role in FOS signaling pathways involved in development and remodeling of neurons. Promotes transcription of the FOS promoter.	same
C1orf58	empty	BROX (BRO1 Domain And CAAX Motif Containing) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C1orf68	empty	C1orf68 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 68) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C1orf65	empty	CCDC185 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 185) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C1orf57	empty	NTPCR (Nucleoside-Triphosphatase, Cancer-Related) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Purine metabolism (KEGG). GO annotations related to this gene include nucleoside-triphosphatase activity and transferase activity.	Has nucleotide phosphatase activity towards ATP, GTP, CTP, TTP and UTP. Hydrolyzes nucleoside diphosphates with lower efficiency.	diff
C1orf69	empty	IBA57 (IBA57, Iron-Sulfur Cluster Assembly Homolog (S. Cerevisiae)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with IBA57 include multiple mitochondrial dysfunctions syndrome 3 and hypotonia-cerebral atrophy-hyperglycinemia syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include aminomethyltransferase activity.	Involved in the maturation of mitochondrial 4Fe-4S proteins functioning late in the iron-sulfur cluster assembly pathway.	diff
C1orf66	empty	RRNAD1 (Ribosomal RNA Adenine Dimethylase Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with RRNAD1 include periodontal disease. GO annotations related to this gene include rRNA (adenine-N6,N6-)-dimethyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is METTL25.	empty	diff
C1orf59	empty	HENMT1 (HEN1 Methyltransferase Homolog 1 (Arabidopsis)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and RNA methyltransferase activity.	Methyltransferase that adds a 2-O-methyl group at the 3-end of piRNAs, a class of 24 to 30 nucleotide RNAs that are generated by a Dicer-independent mechanism and are primarily derived from transposons and other repeated sequence elements. This probably protects the 3-end of piRNAs from uridylation activity and subsequent degradation. Stabilization of piRNAs is essential for gametogenesis (By similarity).	diff
C1orf77	This gene encodes a small nuclear protein that is characterized by a arginine and glycine rich region. The encoded protein may be involved in cell cycle progression. This protein interacts with protein arginine methyltransferases and plays a role in the activation of estradiol-dependent transcription. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]	CHTOP (Chromatin Target Of PRMT1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding.	Plays an important role in the ligand-dependent activation of estrogen receptor target genes. May play a role in the silencing of fetal globin genes. Recruits the 5FMC complex to ZNF148, leading to desumoylation of ZNF148 and subsequent transactivation of ZNF148 target genes	diff
C1orf70	This gene encodes a transmembrane-domain containing protein found in the brain and cerebellum. Mutations in this gene result in spinocerebellar ataxia 21. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2014]	TMEM240 (Transmembrane Protein 240) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with TMEM240 include spinocerebellar ataxia 21.	empty	diff
C1orf56	empty	C1orf56 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 56) is a Protein Coding gene.	Involved in control of cellular proliferation. Onconcogenic modifier contributing to the tumor suppressor function of DNMT3B.	same
C1orf83	empty	TCEANC2 (Transcription Elongation Factor A (SII) N-Terminal And Central Domain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C1orf84	The protein encoded by this gene is expressed in the brain, predominantly in the parietal and frontal cortex as well as in dorsal root ganglia. It is localized to the peroxisome, and is implicated in resistance to oxidative stress. It likely functions by increasing superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity, but itself has no direct SOD activity. Studies in mice show that this gene confers low seizure threshold, and may also enhance epileptogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]	SZT2 (Seizure Threshold 2 Homolog (Mouse)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with SZT2 include epileptic encephalopathy, early infantile, 18 and early infantile epileptic encephalopathy without suppression burst.	Involved in oxidative stress. May be involved in superoxide dismutase activity and in neuroprotective effect of peroxisomes, but has no direct dismutase activity when tested in yeast. May enhance epileptogenesis and confer low seizure threshold (By similarity).	diff
C1orf86	empty	C1orf86 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 86) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin binding and K63-linked polyubiquitin binding.	Component of the Fanconi anemia (FA) complex required to recruit the FA complex to DNA interstrand cross-links (ICLs) and promote ICLs repair. Following DNA damage recognizes and binds Lys-63-linked ubiquitin generated by RNF8 at ICLs and recruits other components of the FA complex. Promotes translesion synthesis via interaction with REV1.	same
C1orf85	empty	GLMP (Glycosylated Lysosomal Membrane Protein) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C1orf87	empty	C1orf87 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 87) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding.	empty	same
C1orf88	empty	PIFO (Primary Cilia Formation) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and beta-tubulin binding.	During primary cilia disassembly, involved in cilia disassembly. Required specifically to control cilia retraction as well as the liberation and duplication of the basal body/centrosome. May act by stimulating AURKA activity at the basal body in a cell cycle-dependent manner.	diff
C1orf89	empty	RSG1 (REM2 And RAB-Like Small GTPase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding.	Potential effector of the planar cell polarity signaling pathway. Plays a role in targeted membrane trafficking most probably at the level of vesicle fusion with membranes. Involved in cilium biogenesis by regulating the transport of cargo proteins to the basal body and to the apical tips of cilia. More generally involved in exocytosis in secretory cells (By similarity).	diff
C1orf92	empty	LRRC71 (Leucine Rich Repeat Containing 71) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C1orf74	empty	C1orf74 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 74) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C1orf94	empty	C1orf94 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 94) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C1orf91	empty	TMEM234 (Transmembrane Protein 234) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C1orf93	empty	FAM213B (Family With Sequence Similarity 213, Member B) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include oxidoreductase activity, acting on the CH-OH group of donors, NAD or NADP as acceptor. An important paralog of this gene is FAM213A.	Catalyzes the reduction of prostaglandin-ethanolamide H(2) (prostamide H(2)) to prostamide F(2alpha) with NADPH as proton donor. Also able to reduce prostaglandin H(2) to prostaglandin F(2alpha) (By similarity).	diff
C1orf9	empty	SUCO (SUN Domain Containing Ossification Factor) is a Protein Coding gene.	Required for bone modeling during late embryogenesis. Regulates type I collagen synthesis in osteoblasts during their postnatal maturation (By similarity).	diff
C20orf112	empty	NOL4L (Nucleolar Protein 4-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is NOL4.	empty	diff
C20orf114	The protein encoded by this gene may be involved in the innate immune response to bacterial exposure in the mouth, nasal cavities, and lungs. The encoded protein is secreted and is a member of the BPI/LBP/PLUNC protein superfamily. This gene is found with other members of the superfamily in a cluster on chromosome 20. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BPIFB1 (BPI Fold Containing Family B, Member 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include lipid binding.	May play a role in innate immunity in mouth, nose and lungs. Binds bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and modulates the cellular responses to LPS.	diff
C20orf111	empty	OSER1 (Oxidative Stress Responsive Serine-Rich 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C20orf117	empty	SOGA1 (Suppressor Of Glucose, Autophagy Associated 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is SOGA3.	Regulates autophagy by playing a role in the reduction of glucose production in an adiponectin- and insulin-dependent manner.	diff
C20orf103	empty	LAMP5 (Lysosomal-Associated Membrane Protein Family, Member 5) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C20orf106	empty	FAM209A (Family With Sequence Similarity 209, Member A) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is FAM209B.	empty	diff
C20orf107	empty	FAM209B (Family With Sequence Similarity 209, Member B) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is FAM209A.	empty	diff
C20orf11	empty	empty	empty	same
C20orf108	empty	FAM210B (Family With Sequence Similarity 210, Member B) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is FAM210A.	empty	diff
C1orf96	empty	CCSAP (Centriole, Cilia And Spindle-Associated Protein) is a Protein Coding gene.	May play a role in embryonic development. May be required for proper cilia beating (By similarity).	diff
C1orf97	empty	LINC00467 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 467) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C1orf95	empty	C1orf95 (Chromosome 1 Open Reading Frame 95) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C20orf132	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the maestro heat-like repeat family. The exact function of this gene is not known, however, in a genome-wide association study using hippocampal atrophy as a quantitative trait, this gene has been associated with Alzheimer's disease (PMID:19668339). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2013]	MROH8 (Maestro Heat-Like Repeat Family Member 8) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is MROH7-TTC4.	empty	diff
C20orf134	empty	ACTL10 (Actin-Like 10) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ACTL7B.	empty	diff
C20orf123	empty	OCSTAMP (Osteoclast Stimulatory Transmembrane Protein) is a Protein Coding gene.	Probable cell surface receptor that plays a role in cellular fusion and cell differentiation. Cooperates with DCSTAMP in modulating cell-cell fusion in both osteoclasts and foreign body giant cells (FBGCs). Involved in osteoclast bone resorption. Promotes osteoclast differentiation and may play a role in the multinucleated osteoclast maturation (By similarity).	diff
C20orf151	empty	RBBP8NL (RBBP8 N-Terminal Like) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is RBBP8.	empty	diff
C20orf144	empty	C20orf144 (Chromosome 20 Open Reading Frame 144) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C20orf135	empty	ABHD16B (Abhydrolase Domain Containing 16B) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrolase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ABHD16A.	empty	diff
C20orf152	empty	CNBD2 (Cyclic Nucleotide Binding Domain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C20orf166	empty	MIR1-1HG (MIR1-1 Host Gene) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C20orf160	empty	CCM2L (Cerebral Cavernous Malformation 2-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCM2L include cavernous malformation. An important paralog of this gene is CCM2.	empty	diff
C20orf165	empty	SPATA25 (Spermatogenesis Associated 25) is a Protein Coding gene.	May play a role in spermatogenesis.	diff
C20orf118	empty	TLDC2 (TBC/LysM-Associated Domain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is NCOA7.	empty	diff
C20orf141	empty	C20orf141 (Chromosome 20 Open Reading Frame 141) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000241690.	empty	same
C20orf12	This gene contains two ankyrin repeat-encoding regions. Ankyrin repeats are tandemly repeated modules of about 33 amino acids described as L-shaped structures consisting of a beta-hairpin and two alpha-helices. Ankyrin repeats occur in a large number of functionally diverse proteins, mainly from eukaryotes, and are known to function as protein-protein interaction domains. Alternative splicing has been observed for this gene but the full-length nature of additional variants has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DZANK1 (Double Zinc Ribbon And Ankyrin Repeat Domains 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C20orf177	empty	FAM217B (Family With Sequence Similarity 217, Member B) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C20orf186	empty	BPIFB4 (BPI Fold Containing Family B, Member 4) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include lipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is BPIFB6.	May have the capacity to recognize and bind specific classes of odorants. May act as a carrier molecule, transporting odorants across the mucus layer to access receptor sites. May serve as a primary defense mechanism by recognizing and removing potentially harmful odorants or pathogenic microorganisms from the mucosa or clearing excess odorant from mucus to enable new odorant stimuli to be received (By similarity).	diff
C20orf185	empty	BPIFB3 (BPI Fold Containing Family B, Member 3) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include lipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is BPIFB6.	May have the capacity to recognize and bind specific classes of odorants. May act as a carrier molecule, transporting odorants across the mucus layer to access receptor sites. May serve as a primary defense mechanism by recognizing and removing potentially harmful odorants or pathogenic microorganisms from the mucosa or clearing excess odorant from mucus to enable new odorant stimuli to be received (By similarity).	diff
C20orf195	empty	C20orf195 (Chromosome 20 Open Reading Frame 195) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C20orf196	empty	C20orf196 (Chromosome 20 Open Reading Frame 196) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C20orf194	This gene encodes an uncharacterized protein with a C-terminal coiled-coil region. The gene is located on chromosome 20p13 in a 1.8 Mb region linked to a spinocerebellar ataxia phenotype, but this gene does not appear to be a disease candidate. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	C20orf194 (Chromosome 20 Open Reading Frame 194) is a Protein Coding gene.	May act as an effector for ARL3	same
C20orf197	empty	C20orf197 (Chromosome 20 Open Reading Frame 197) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C20orf201	empty	LKAAEAR1 (LKAAEAR Motif Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C20orf199	empty	ZFAS1 (ZNFX1 Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class.	empty	diff
C20orf191	empty	NCOR1P1 (Nuclear Receptor Corepressor 1 Pseudogene 1) is a Pseudogene.	empty	diff
C20orf173	empty	C20orf173 (Chromosome 20 Open Reading Frame 173) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C20orf202	empty	C20orf202 (Chromosome 20 Open Reading Frame 202) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C20orf24	empty	C20orf24 (Chromosome 20 Open Reading Frame 24) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is TGIF2-C20orf24.	empty	same
C20orf26	empty	CFAP61 (Cilia And Flagella Associated Protein 61) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C20orf27	empty	C20orf27 (Chromosome 20 Open Reading Frame 27) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C20orf29	empty	AP5S1 (Adaptor-Related Protein Complex 5, Sigma 1 Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene.	As part of AP-5, a probable fifth adaptor protein complex it may be involved in endosomal transport. According to PubMed:20613862, it is required for efficient homologous recombination DNA double-strand break repair.	diff
C20orf20	empty	MRGBP (MRG/MORF4L Binding Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are RNA Polymerase I Promoter Opening and RNA Polymerase I Promoter Opening.	Component of the NuA4 histone acetyltransferase (HAT) complex which is involved in transcriptional activation of select genes principally by acetylation of nucleosomal histones H4 and H2A. This modification may both alter nucleosome - DNA interactions and promote interaction of the modified histones with other proteins which positively regulate transcription. This complex may be required for the activation of transcriptional programs associated with oncogene and proto-oncogene mediated growth induction, tumor suppressor mediated growth arrest and replicative senescence, apoptosis, and DNA repair. NuA4 may also play a direct role in DNA repair when recruited to sites of DNA damage	diff
C20orf203	empty	C20orf203 (Chromosome 20 Open Reading Frame 203) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C20orf3	empty	APMAP (Adipocyte Plasma Membrane Associated Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include arylesterase activity and strictosidine synthase activity.	Exhibits strong arylesterase activity with beta-naphthyl acetate and phenyl acetate. May play a role in adipocyte differentiation.	diff
C20orf43	empty	RTFDC1 (Replication Termination Factor 2 Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C20orf30	empty	TMEM230 (Transmembrane Protein 230) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C20orf4	This gene encodes the homolog of the yeast A1-alpha2 repressin protein that is involved in mRNA splicing. Alternately spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]	AAR2 (AAR2 Splicing Factor Homolog (S. Cerevisiae)) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C20orf54	This gene encodes a riboflavin transporter protein that is strongly expressed in the intestine and likely plays a role in intestinal absorption of riboflavin. The protein is predicted to have eleven transmembrane domains and a cell surface localization signal in the C-terminus. Mutations at this locus have been associated with Brown-Vialetto-Van Laere syndrome and Fazio-Londe disease. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]	SLC52A3 (Solute Carrier Family 52 (Riboflavin Transporter), Member 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with SLC52A3 include brown-vialetto-van laere syndrome 1 and fazio-londe disease. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include riboflavin transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is SLC52A2.	Transporter for riboflavin, which must be obtained as a nutrient via intestinal absorption. Riboflavin transport is Na(+)-independent at low pH but significantly reduced by Na(+) depletion under neutral pH conditions. Activity is strongly inhibited by riboflavin analogs, such as lumiflavin, flavin mononucleotide (FMN), flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD), by methylene blue, and to a lesser extent by amiloride.	diff
C20orf70	empty	BPIFA2 (BPI Fold Containing Family A, Member 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include lipid binding.	Has strong antibacterial activity against P. aeruginosa.	diff
C20orf56	empty	LINC00261 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 261) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class. Diseases associated with LINC00261 include hepatocellular carcinoma.	empty	diff
C20orf72	empty	MGME1 (Mitochondrial Genome Maintenance Exonuclease 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with MGME1 include mitochondrial dna depletion syndrome 11 and progressive external ophthalmoplegia - myopathy - emaciation. GO annotations related to this gene include single-stranded DNA exodeoxyribonuclease activity.	Metal-dependent single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) exonuclease involved in mitochondrial genome maintenance. Has preference for 5-3 exonuclease activity but is also capable of endoduclease activity on linear substrates. Necessary for maintenance of proper 7S DNA levels. Probably involved in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) repair, possibly via the processing of displaced DNA containing Okazaki fragments during RNA-primed DNA synthesis on the lagging strand or via processing of DNA flaps during long-patch base excision repair. Specifically binds 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC)-containing DNA in stem cells.	diff
C20orf85	empty	C20orf85 (Chromosome 20 Open Reading Frame 85) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C20orf85 include lung cancer.	empty	same
C20orf79	empty	SCP2D1 (SCP2 Sterol-Binding Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with SCP2D1 include d-bifunctional protein deficiency. GO annotations related to this gene include sterol binding. An important paralog of this gene is HSD17B4.	empty	diff
C20orf94	empty	SLX4IP (SLX4 Interacting Protein) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C20orf71	empty	BPIFA3 (BPI Fold Containing Family A, Member 3) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include lipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is BPIFA1.	empty	diff
C21orf119	empty	URB1-AS1 (URB1 Antisense RNA 1 (Head To Head)) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class.	empty	diff
C20orf96	empty	C20orf96 (Chromosome 20 Open Reading Frame 96) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C20orf200	empty	C20orf166-AS1 (C20orf166 Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class.	empty	diff
C20orf7	The NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase complex (complex I) of the mitochondrial respiratory chain catalyzes the transfer of electrons from NADH to ubiquinone, and consists of at least 43 subunits. The complex is located in the inner mitochondrial membrane. This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein that is associated with the matrix face of the mitochondrial inner membrane and is required for complex I assembly. A mutation in this gene results in mitochondrial complex I deficiency. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]	NDUFAF5 (NADH Dehydrogenase (Ubiquinone) Complex I, Assembly Factor 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with NDUFAF5 include mitochondrial complex i deficiency and leigh syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include methyltransferase activity.	Involved in the assembly of mitochondrial NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase complex (complex I, MT-ND1) at early stages. May have methyltransferase activity.	diff
C21orf121	empty	ZNF295-AS1 (ZNF295 Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class.	empty	diff
C21orf122	empty	SSR4P1 (Signal Sequence Receptor, Delta Pseudogene 1) is a Pseudogene.	empty	diff
C21orf125	empty	LINC00319 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 319) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C21orf128	empty	UMODL1-AS1 (UMODL1 Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class.	empty	diff
C21orf131	empty	LINC00320 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 320) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C21orf130	empty	LINC00323 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 323) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C21orf15	empty	CYP4F29P (Cytochrome P450, Family 4, Subfamily F, Polypeptide 29, Pseudogene) is a Pseudogene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C21orf29	This gene encodes a protein that contains a N-terminal thrombospondin-type laminin G domain and several tandem arranged epilepsy-associated repeats (EARs). A mutation in this gene is the cause of autosomal recessive deafness-98. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]	TSPEAR (Thrombospondin-Type Laminin G Domain And EAR Repeats) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with TSPEAR include deafness, autosomal recessive 98 and autosomal recessive non-syndromic sensorineural deafness type dfnb.	May play a role in development or function of the auditory system	diff
C20orf46	empty	TMEM74B is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is TMEM74.	empty	diff
C21orf49	empty	C21orf62-AS1 (C21orf62 Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class.	empty	diff
C21orf45	empty	MIS18A (MIS18 Kinetochore Protein A) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Packaging Of Telomere Ends.	Required for recruitment of CENPA to centromeres and normal chromosome segregation during mitosis.	diff
C21orf54	empty	LINC01548 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 1548) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class.	empty	diff
C21orf58	empty	C21orf58 (Chromosome 21 Open Reading Frame 58) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C21orf56	empty	SPATC1L (Spermatogenesis And Centriole Associated 1-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is SPATC1.	empty	diff
C21orf34	empty	MIR99AHG (Mir-99a-Let-7c Cluster Host Gene) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the miRNA class.	empty	diff
C21orf33	This gene encodes a potential mitochondrial protein that is a member of the DJ-1/PfpI gene family. This protein is overexpressed in fetal Down syndrome brain. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	C21orf33 (Chromosome 21 Open Reading Frame 33) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C21orf33 include down syndrome and anophthalmia/microphthalmia. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. An important paralog of this gene is LOC102724023.	empty	same
C21orf57	empty	YBEY (YbeY Metallopeptidase (Putative)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include metalloendopeptidase activity.	empty	diff
C21orf129	empty	LINC00479 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 479) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C21orf59	This gene a protein plays a critical role in dynein arm assembly and motile cilia function. Mutations in this gene result in primary ciliary dyskinesia. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2013]	C21orf59 (Chromosome 21 Open Reading Frame 59) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C21orf59 include ciliary dyskinesia, primary, 26 and prostate cancer. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000265590.	May play a role in motile cilia function, possibly by acting on dynein arm assembly.	same
C21orf2	Four alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding four different isoforms have been found for this nuclear gene. All isoforms contain leucine-rich repeats. Three of these isoforms are mitochondrial proteins and one of them lacks the target peptide, so is not located in mitochondrion. This gene is down-regulated in Down syndrome (DS) brain, which may represent mitochondrial dysfunction in DS patients. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2012]	C21orf2 (Chromosome 21 Open Reading Frame 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C21orf2 include down syndrome.	May play roles in cilia formation and/or maintenance (By similarity). Plays a role in the regulation of cell morphology and cytoskeletal organization.	same
C21orf62	empty	C21orf62 (Chromosome 21 Open Reading Frame 62) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C21orf7	empty	empty	empty	same
C21orf67	empty	LINC01547 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 1547) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class.	empty	diff
C21orf71	empty	LINC00515 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 515) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C21orf81	empty	ANKRD20A11P (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 20 Family, Member A11, Pseudogene) is a Pseudogene.	empty	diff
C21orf63	empty	EVA1C (Eva-1 Homolog C (C. Elegans)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding. An important paralog of this gene is EVA1A.	Binds heparin.	diff
C21orf84	empty	LINC00313 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 313) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C21orf70	empty	FAM207A (Family With Sequence Similarity 207, Member A) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C21orf88	empty	B3GALT5-AS1 (B3GALT5 Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class.	empty	diff
C21orf82	empty	LINC00310 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 310) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C21orf94	empty	LINC00314 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 314) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C21orf96	empty	RUNX1-IT1 (RUNX1 Intronic Transcript 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C21orf99	empty	ANKRD30BP2 (Ankyrin Repeat Domain 30B Pseudogene 2) is a Pseudogene.	empty	diff
C21orf91	empty	C21orf91 (Chromosome 21 Open Reading Frame 91) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C22orf15	empty	C22orf15 (Chromosome 22 Open Reading Frame 15) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C22orf26	empty	PRR34 (Proline Rich 34) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C22orf23	empty	C22orf23 (Chromosome 22 Open Reading Frame 23) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C22orf27	empty	MORC2-AS1 (MORC2 Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class.	empty	diff
C22orf28	empty	RTCB (RNA 2',3'-Cyclic Phosphate And 5'-OH Ligase) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include vinculin binding and RNA ligase (ATP) activity.	Catalytic subunit of the tRNA-splicing ligase complex that acts by directly joining spliced tRNA halves to mature-sized tRNAs by incorporating the precursor-derived splice junction phosphate into the mature tRNA as a canonical 3,5-phosphodiester. May act as an RNA ligase with broad substrate specificity, and may function toward other RNAs.	diff
C22orf24	empty	C22orf24 (Chromosome 22 Open Reading Frame 24) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C22orf25	empty	TANGO2 (Transport And Golgi Organization 2 Homolog (Drosophila)) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C22orf31	empty	C22orf31 (Chromosome 22 Open Reading Frame 31) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C22orf29	empty	C22orf29 (Chromosome 22 Open Reading Frame 29) is a Protein Coding gene.	Could induce apoptosis in a BH3 domain-dependent manner. The direct interaction network of Bcl-2 family members may play a key role in modulation BOP intrinsic apoptotic signaling activity.	same
C22orf32	empty	SMDT1 (Single-Pass Membrane Protein With Aspartate-Rich Tail 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	Essential regulatory subunit of the mitochondrial calcium uniporter complex (uniplex), a complex that mediates calcium uptake into mitochondria. Required to bridge the calcium-sensing proteins MICU1 and MICU2 with the calcium-conducting subunit MCU.	diff
C22orf36	empty	LRRC75B (Leucine Rich Repeat Containing 75B) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is LRRC75A.	empty	diff
C22orf34	empty	C22orf34 (Chromosome 22 Open Reading Frame 34) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C22orf39	empty	C22orf39 (Chromosome 22 Open Reading Frame 39) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C22orf13	empty	GUCD1 (Guanylyl Cyclase Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C22orf42	empty	C22orf42 (Chromosome 22 Open Reading Frame 42) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C22orf40	empty	CDPF1 (Cysteine-Rich, DPF Motif Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C22orf41	empty	SYCE3 (Synaptonemal Complex Central Element Protein 3) is a Protein Coding gene.	Major component of the transverse central element of synaptonemal complexes (SCS), formed between homologous chromosomes during meiotic prophase. Required for chromosome loading of the central element-specific SCS proteins, and for initiating synapsis between homologous chromosomes. Chromosome loading appears to require SYCP1. Required for fertility (By similarity).	diff
C22orf43	empty	DRICH1 (Aspartate-Rich 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C22orf45	empty	ADORA2A-AS1 (ADORA2A Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class.	empty	diff
C22orf33	empty	TEX33 (Testis Expressed 33) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C22orf46	empty	C22orf46 (Chromosome 22 Open Reading Frame 46) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C2CD3	This gene encodes a protein that functions as a regulator of centriole elongation. Studies of the orthologous mouse protein show that it promotes centriolar distal appendage assembly and is also required for the recruitment of other ciliogenic proteins, including intraflagellar transport proteins. Mutations in this gene cause orofaciodigital syndrome XIV (OFD14), a ciliopathy resulting in malformations of the oral cavity, face and digits. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]	C2CD3 (C2 Calcium-Dependent Domain Containing 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C2CD3 include orofaciodigital syndrome xiv.	Component of the centrioles that acts as a positive regulator of centriole elongation (PubMed:24997988). Promotes assembly of centriolar distal appendage, a structure at the distal end of the mother centriole that acts as an anchor of the cilium, and is required for recruitment of centriolar distal appendages proteins CEP83, SCLT1, CEP89, FBF1 and CEP164. Not required for centriolar satellite integrity or RAB8 activation. Required for primary cilium formation (PubMed:23769972). Required for sonic hedgehog/SHH signaling and for proteolytic processing of GLI3.	same
C2CD2L	empty	C2CD2L (C2CD2-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is C2CD2.	empty	same
C22orf30	empty	PRR14L (Proline Rich 14-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is PRR14.	empty	diff
C21orf90	empty	TSPEAR-AS2 (TSPEAR Antisense RNA 2) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class.	empty	diff
C2CD4D	empty	C2CD4D (C2 Calcium-Dependent Domain Containing 4D) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is C2CD4A.	empty	same
C2orf14	empty	CYP4F30P (Cytochrome P450, Family 4, Subfamily F, Polypeptide 30, Pseudogene) is a Pseudogene.	empty	diff
C2CD4C	empty	C2CD4C (C2 Calcium-Dependent Domain Containing 4C) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is C2CD4A.	empty	same
C2orf15	empty	C2orf15 (Chromosome 2 Open Reading Frame 15) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C2orf16	empty	C2orf16 (Chromosome 2 Open Reading Frame 16) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C2orf18	empty	SLC35F6 (Solute Carrier Family 35, Member F6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with SLC35F6 include pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma.	Involved in the maintenance of mitochondrial membrane potential in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) cells. Promotes pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) cell growth. May play a role as a nucleotide-sugar transporter.	diff
C2CD4B	empty	C2CD4B (C2 Calcium-Dependent Domain Containing 4B) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is C2CD4A.	May be involved in inflammatory process. May regulate cell architecture and adhesion.	same
C2CD2	empty	C2CD2 (C2 Calcium-Dependent Domain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is C2CD2L.	empty	same
C22orf9	empty	KIAA0930 (KIAA0930) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C2orf27A	empty	C2orf27A (Chromosome 2 Open Reading Frame 27A) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is C2orf27B.	empty	same
C2orf29	empty	CNOT11 (CCR4-NOT Transcription Complex, Subunit 11) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and Deadenylation-dependent mRNA decay.	Component of the CCR4-NOT complex which is one of the major cellular mRNA deadenylases and is linked to various cellular processes including bulk mRNA degradation, miRNA-mediated repression, translational repression during translational initiation and general transcription regulation. Additional complex functions may be a consequence of its influence on mRNA expression. Is required for the association of CNOT10 with the CCR4-NOT complex. Seems not to be required for complex deadenylase function	diff
C2orf34	This gene encodes a class I protein methyltransferase that acts in the formation of trimethyllysine in calmodulin. The protein contains a AdoMet-binding motif and may play a role in calcium-dependent signaling. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2012]	CAMKMT (Calmodulin-Lysine N-Methyltransferase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CAMKMT include 2p21 microdeletion syndrome without cystinuria and 2p21 microdeletion syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include calmodulin-lysine N-methyltransferase activity.	Catalyzes the trimethylation of Lys-116 in calmodulin.	diff
C2orf39	empty	DRC1 (Dynein Regulatory Complex Subunit 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DRC1 include ciliary dyskinesia, primary, 21.	Key component of the nexin-dynein regulatory complex (N-DRC), essential for N-DRC integrity. Required for the assembly and regulation of specific classes of inner dynein arm motors. May also function to restrict dynein-driven microtubule sliding, thus aiding in the generation of ciliary bending.	diff
C2CD4A	empty	C2CD4A (C2 Calcium-Dependent Domain Containing 4A) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is C2CD4C.	May be involved in inflammatory process. May regulate cell architecture and adhesion.	same
C2orf24	empty	CNPPD1 (Cyclin Pas1/PHO80 Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding.	empty	diff
C2orf40	empty	C2orf40 (Chromosome 2 Open Reading Frame 40) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C2orf40 include esophageal cancer.	Probable hormone that may induce senescence of oligodendrocyte and neural precursor cells, characterized by G1 arrest, RB1 dephosphorylation and accelerated CCND1 and CCND3 proteasomal degradation.	same
C2orf3	The first mRNA transcript isolated for this gene was part of an artificial chimera derived from two distinct gene transcripts and a primer used in the cloning process (see Genbank accession M29204). A positively charged amino terminus present only in the chimera was determined to bind GC-rich DNA, thus mistakenly thought to identify a transcription factor gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	GCFC2 (GC-Rich Sequence DNA-Binding Factor 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is PAXBP1.	Factor that represses transcription. It binds to the GC-rich sequences (5-GCGGGGC-3) present in the epidermal growth factor receptor, beta-actin, and calcium-dependent protease promoters. Involved in pre-mRNA splicing through regulating spliceosome C complex formation. May play a role during late-stage splicing events and turnover of excised inrons.	diff
C2orf27B	empty	C2orf27B (Chromosome 2 Open Reading Frame 27B) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is C2orf27A.	empty	same
C2orf43	empty	LDAH (Lipid Droplet Associated Hydrolase) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C2orf28	This gene is thought to be involved in apoptosis, and may also be involved in hematopoietic development and differentiation. The use of alternative splice sites and promotors result in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]	ATRAID (All-Trans Retinoic Acid-Induced Differentiation Factor) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle / Checkpoint Control and Apoptosis and Autophagy.	Promotes osteoblast cell differentiation and terminal mineralization. Plays a role in inducing the cell cycle arrest via inhibiting CCND1 expression in all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) signal pathway.	diff
C2orf44	empty	C2orf44 (Chromosome 2 Open Reading Frame 44) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C2orf48	empty	C2orf48 (Chromosome 2 Open Reading Frame 48) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C2orf49	empty	C2orf49 (Chromosome 2 Open Reading Frame 49) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C2orf50	empty	C2orf50 (Chromosome 2 Open Reading Frame 50) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C2orf52	empty	LINC00471 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 471) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C2orf42	empty	C2orf42 (Chromosome 2 Open Reading Frame 42) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C2orf51	empty	TEX37 (Testis Expressed 37) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C2orf47	empty	C2orf47 (Chromosome 2 Open Reading Frame 47) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C2orf58	empty	CYP1B1-AS1 (CYP1B1 Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class.	empty	diff
C2orf57	empty	C2orf57 (Chromosome 2 Open Reading Frame 57) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C2orf61	empty	C2orf61 (Chromosome 2 Open Reading Frame 61) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C2orf56	empty	NDUFAF7 (NADH Dehydrogenase (Ubiquinone) Complex I, Assembly Factor 7) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include enzyme binding and methyltransferase activity.	Involved in the assembly or stability of mitochondrial NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase complex (complex I).	diff
C2orf60	empty	TYW5 (TRNA-YW Synthesizing Protein 5) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and tRNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is HSPBAP1.	tRNA hydroxylase that acts as a component of the wybutosine biosynthesis pathway. Wybutosine is a hyper modified guanosine with a tricyclic base found at the 3-position adjacent to the anticodon of eukaryotic phenylalanine tRNA. Catalyzes the hydroxylation of 7-(a-amino-a-carboxypropyl)wyosine (yW-72) into undermodified hydroxywybutosine (OHyW*). OHyW* being further transformed into hydroxywybutosine (OHyW) by LCMT2/TYW4. OHyW is a derivative of wybutosine found in higher eukaryotes.	diff
C2orf62	empty	CATIP (Ciliogenesis Associated TTC17 Interacting Protein) is a Protein Coding gene.	Plays a role in primary ciliogenesis by modulating actin polymerization.	diff
C2orf54	empty	C2orf54 (Chromosome 2 Open Reading Frame 54) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C2orf63	empty	CLHC1 (Clathrin Heavy Chain Linker Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C2orf55	empty	KIAA1211L (KIAA1211-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is KIAA1211.	empty	diff
C2orf64	This gene encodes an ortholog of yeast Pet191, which in yeast is a subunit of a large oligomeric complex associated with the mitochondrial inner membrane, and required for the assembly of the cytochrome c oxidase complex. Mutations in this gene are associated with mitochondrial complex IV deficiency, a disorder of the mitochondrial respiratory chain with heterogeneous clinical manifestations, ranging from isolated myopathy to a severe disease affecting several tissues and organs. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	COA5 (Cytochrome C Oxidase Assembly Factor 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COA5 include mitochondrial complex iv deficiency and isolated cytochrome c oxidase deficiency.	Involved in an early step of the mitochondrial complex IV assembly process.	diff
C2orf66	empty	C2orf66 (Chromosome 2 Open Reading Frame 66) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C2orf65	This gene encodes a protein that is likely to function in progression of meiosis. A similar protein in mouse plays a role in gametogenesis in both sexes. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]	M1AP (Meiosis 1 Associated Protein) is a Protein Coding gene.	Required for meiosis I progression during spermatogenesis.	diff
C2orf53	empty	PRR30 (Proline Rich 30) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C2orf68	empty	C2orf68 (Chromosome 2 Open Reading Frame 68) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C2orf68 include colorectal adenocarcinoma.	empty	same
C2orf70	empty	C2orf70 (Chromosome 2 Open Reading Frame 70) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C2orf69	empty	C2orf69 (Chromosome 2 Open Reading Frame 69) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C2orf71	The protein encoded by this gene is highly expressed in photoreceptors and may associate with the primary cilium of the outer segment. The encoded protein appears to undergo post-translational lipid modification. Nonsense and missense variants of this gene appear to cause a recessive form of retinitis pigmentosa. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	C2orf71 (Chromosome 2 Open Reading Frame 71) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C2orf71 include retinitis pigmentosa 54 and c2orf71-related retinitis pigmentosa.	May play an important role in the development of normal vision.	same
C2orf67	empty	KANSL1L (KAT8 Regulatory NSL Complex Subunit 1-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is KANSL1.	empty	diff
C2orf74	empty	C2orf74 (Chromosome 2 Open Reading Frame 74) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C2orf76	empty	C2orf76 (Chromosome 2 Open Reading Frame 76) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C2orf77	empty	CCDC173 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 173) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C2orf79	empty	PTRHD1 (Peptidyl-TRNA Hydrolase Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein tyrosine phosphatase activity and aminoacyl-tRNA hydrolase activity.	empty	diff
C2orf73	empty	C2orf73 (Chromosome 2 Open Reading Frame 73) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C2orf7	empty	PRADC1 (Protease-Associated Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C2orf84	empty	FAM228A (Family With Sequence Similarity 228, Member A) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C2orf82	empty	C2orf82 (Chromosome 2 Open Reading Frame 82) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C2orf83	empty	C2orf83 (Chromosome 2 Open Reading Frame 83) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include folic acid binding and reduced folate carrier activity.	empty	same
C2orf86	This gene encodes a cytoplasmic WD40 repeat protein. A similar gene in frogs encodes a planar cell polarity protein that plays a critical role in collective cell movement and ciliogenesis by mediating septin localization. Mutations in this gene are associated with Bardet-Biedl syndrome 15 and may also play a role in Meckel-Gruber syndrome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2014]	WDPCP (WD Repeat Containing Planar Cell Polarity Effector) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with WDPCP include bardet-biedl syndrome 15 and congenital heart defects, hamartomas of tongue, and polysyndactyly.	Probable effector of the planar cell polarity signaling pathway which regulates the septin cytoskeleton in both ciliogenesis and collective cell movements.	diff
C2orf85	empty	RTP5 (Receptor (Chemosensory) Transporter Protein 5 (Putative)) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is RTP1.	empty	diff
C2orf81	empty	C2orf81 (Chromosome 2 Open Reading Frame 81) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C2orf89	empty	TRABD2A (TraB Domain Containing 2A) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include metalloendopeptidase activity and Wnt-protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is TRABD2B.	Metalloprotease that acts as a negative regulator of the Wnt signaling pathway by mediating the cleavage of the 8 N-terminal residues of a subset of Wnt proteins. Following cleavage, Wnt proteins become oxidized and form large disulfide-bond oligomers, leading to their inactivation. Able to cleave WNT3A, WNT5, but not WNT11. Required for head formation.	diff
C2orf88	empty	C2orf88 (Chromosome 2 Open Reading Frame 88) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase A regulatory subunit binding.	Binds to type I regulatory subunits of protein kinase A (PKA-RI) and may anchor/target them to the plasma membrane.	same
C3AR1	empty	C3AR1 (Complement Component 3a Receptor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C3AR1 include lupus nephritis and bacterial meningitis. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include G-protein coupled receptor activity and N-formyl peptide receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is FPR2.	Receptor for the chemotactic and inflammatory peptide anaphylatoxin C3a. This receptor stimulates chemotaxis, granule enzyme release and superoxide anion production	same
C2	Component C2 is a serum glycoprotein that functions as part of the classical pathway of the complement system. Activated C1 cleaves C2 into C2a and C2b. The serine proteinase C2a then combines with complement factor 4b to create the C3 or C5 convertase. Deficiency of C2 has been reported to associated with certain autoimmune diseases and SNPs in this gene have been associated with altered susceptibility to age-related macular degeneration. This gene localizes within the class III region of the MHC on the short arm of chromosome 6. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. Additional transcript variants have been described in publications but their full-length sequence has not been determined.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]	C2 (Complement Component 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C2 include c2 deficiency and macular degeneration, age-related, 14, reduced risk of. Among its related pathways are Complement and coagulation cascades and Complement and coagulation cascades. GO annotations related to this gene include serine-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000244255.	Component C2 which is part of the classical pathway of the complement system is cleaved by activated factor C1 into two fragments: C2b and C2a. C2a, a serine protease, then combines with complement factor C4b to generate the C3 or C5 convertase	same
C2orf80	empty	C2orf80 (Chromosome 2 Open Reading Frame 80) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C3orf14	empty	C3orf14 (Chromosome 3 Open Reading Frame 14) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C3P1	empty	C3P1 (Complement Component 3 Precursor Pseudogene) is a Pseudogene. GO annotations related to this gene include endopeptidase inhibitor activity.	empty	same
C2orf78	empty	C2orf78 (Chromosome 2 Open Reading Frame 78) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C3orf10	empty	BRK1 (BRICK1, SCAR/WAVE Actin-Nucleating Complex Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Regulation of actin cytoskeleton and Regulation of actin cytoskeleton.	Involved in regulation of actin and microtubule organization. Part of a WAVE complex that activates the Arp2/3 complex.	diff
C3orf15	empty	MAATS1 (MYCBP-Associated, Testis Expressed 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	Isoform 4 may play a role in spermatogenesis.	diff
C3orf16	empty	ANKUB1 (Ankyrin Repeat And Ubiquitin Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C3orf19	empty	CCDC174 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 174) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C3orf18	empty	C3orf18 (Chromosome 3 Open Reading Frame 18) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C3orf22	empty	C3orf22 (Chromosome 3 Open Reading Frame 22) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C3orf24	This gene encodes a conserved protein of unknown function. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]	FANCD2OS (FANCD2 Opposite Strand) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C3orf23	empty	TCAIM (T Cell Activation Inhibitor, Mitochondrial) is a Protein Coding gene.	May regulate T-cell apoptosis.	diff
C3orf20	empty	C3orf20 (Chromosome 3 Open Reading Frame 20) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C3orf26	empty	CMSS1 (Cms1 Ribosomal Small Subunit Homolog (Yeast)) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C3orf27	empty	LINC01565 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 1565) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class.	empty	diff
C2orf72	empty	C2orf72 (Chromosome 2 Open Reading Frame 72) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C3orf1	empty	TIMMDC1 (Translocase Of Inner Mitochondrial Membrane Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with TIMMDC1 include primary biliary cirrhosis.	Chaperone protein involved in the assembly of the mitochondrial NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase complex (complex I). Participates in constructing the membrane arm of complex I.	diff
C3orf30	empty	C3orf30 (Chromosome 3 Open Reading Frame 30) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include cAMP-dependent protein kinase regulator activity.	empty	same
C3orf33	empty	C3orf33 (Chromosome 3 Open Reading Frame 33) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleic acid binding and hydrolase activity, acting on ester bonds.	Isoform 2: Secreted protein may play a role in transcription regulation via the MAPK3/MAPK1 pathway through an unidentified receptor on the plasma membrane	same
C3orf32	empty	SSUH2 (Ssu-2 Homolog (C. Elegans)) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C3orf17	empty	C3orf17 (Chromosome 3 Open Reading Frame 17) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C3orf36	empty	C3orf36 (Chromosome 3 Open Reading Frame 36) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C3orf34	The protein encoded by this gene localizes to centrosomes and primary cilia and co-localizes with a marker for the mother centriole. This gene resides in a region of human chromosome 3 that is linked to morbid obesity. A homozygous knockout of the orthologous gene in mouse resulted in mice with morbid obesity, hyperphagy, glucose intolerance, and insulin resistance. Mutations in this gene cause morbid obesity and spermatogenic failure (MOSPGF). This gene has a pseudogene on human chromosome 2. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2014]	CEP19 (Centrosomal Protein 19kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CEP19 include morbid obesity and spermatogenic failure and obesity due to cep19 deficiency.	empty	diff
C3orf21	empty	XXYLT1 (Xyloside Xylosyltransferase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include transferase activity, transferring pentosyl groups. An important paralog of this gene is LARGE.	Alpha-1,3-xylosyltransferase, which elongates the O-linked xylose-glucose disaccharide attached to EGF-like repeats in the extracellular domain of Notch proteins by catalyzing the addition of the second xylose.	diff
C3orf42	empty	LINC00852 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 852) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C3orf37	empty	HMCES (5-Hydroxymethylcytosine (HmC) Binding, ES Cell-Specific) is a Protein Coding gene.	Specifically binds 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC)-containing DNA in stem cells, suggesting that it acts as a specific reader of 5hmC in stem cells (By similarity). May act as a peptidase; experimental evidences are however required to confirm this prediction (PubMed:23945014).	diff
C3orf38	empty	C3orf38 (Chromosome 3 Open Reading Frame 38) is a Protein Coding gene.	May be involved in apoptosis regulation.	same
C3orf47	empty	H1FX-AS1 (H1FX Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class.	empty	diff
C3orf39	This gene encodes a protein with glycosyltransferase activity although its function is not currently known. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2012]	POMGNT2 (Protein O-Linked Mannose N-Acetylglucosaminyltransferase 2 (Beta 1,4-)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with POMGNT2 include muscular dystrophy-dystroglycanopathy (congenital with brain and eye anomalies, type a, 8 and hereditary multiple osteochondromas. GO annotations related to this gene include acetylglucosaminyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is EOGT.	O-linked mannose beta-1,4-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase that tranfers UDP-N-acetyl-D-glucosamine to the 4-position of the mannose to generate N-acetyl-D-glucosamine-beta-1,4-O-D-mannosylprotein. Involved in the biosynthesis of the phosphorylated O-mannosyl trisaccharide (N-acetylgalactosamine-beta-3-N-acetylglucosamine-beta-4-(phosphate-6-)mannose), a carbohydrate structure present in alpha-dystroglycan (DAG1), which is required for binding laminin G-like domain-containing extracellular proteins with high affinity.	diff
C3orf31	empty	TAMM41 (TAM41, Mitochondrial Translocator Assembly And Maintenance Protein, Homolog (S. Cerevisiae)) is a Protein Coding gene.	Catalyzes the formation of CDP-diacylglycerol (CDP-DAG) from phosphatidic acid (PA) in the mitochondrial inner membrane. Required for the biosynthesis of the dimeric phospholipid cardiolipin, which stabilizes supercomplexes of the mitochondrial respiratory chain in the mitochondrial inner membrane (By similarity).	diff
C3orf35	empty	C3orf35 (Chromosome 3 Open Reading Frame 35) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C3orf35 include muir-torre syndrome.	empty	same
C3orf43	empty	SMCO1 (Single-Pass Membrane Protein With Coiled-Coil Domains 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C3orf45	empty	LSMEM2 (Leucine-Rich Single-Pass Membrane Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C3orf50	empty	EGFEM1P (EGF-Like And EMI Domain Containing 1, Pseudogene) is a Pseudogene.	empty	diff
C3orf49	empty	C3orf49 (Chromosome 3 Open Reading Frame 49) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the ncRNA class.	empty	same
C3orf51	This gene is a putative tumor suppressor gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ERC2-IT1 (ERC2 Intronic Transcript 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C3orf55	empty	PQLC2L (PQ Loop Repeat Containing 2-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is PQLC2.	empty	diff
C3orf54	empty	FAM212A (Family With Sequence Similarity 212, Member A) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is FAM212B.	empty	diff
C3orf57	Serine palmitoyltransferase (SPT; EC 2.3.1.50) catalyzes the first committed and rate-limiting step in sphingolipid biosynthesis. SSSPTB is a small SPT subunit that stimulates SPT activity and confers acyl-CoA preference to the SPT catalytic heterodimer of SPTLC1 (MIM 605712) and either SPTLC2 (MIM 605713) or SPTLC3 (MIM 611120) (Han et al., 2009 [PubMed 19416851]).[supplied by OMIM, Nov 2010]	SPTSSB (Serine Palmitoyltransferase, Small Subunit B) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include serine C-palmitoyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is SPTSSA.	Stimulates the activity of serine palmitoyltransferase (SPT). The composition of the serine palmitoyltransferase (SPT) complex determines the substrate preference, complexes with this subunit showing a clear preference for longer acyl-CoAs. The SPTLC1-SPTLC2-SPTSSB complex shows a strong preference for C18-CoA substrate, while the SPTLC1-SPTLC3-SPTSSB isozyme displays an ability to use a broader range of acyl-CoAs, without apparent preference. May play a role in signal transduction.	diff
C3orf52	empty	C3orf52 (Chromosome 3 Open Reading Frame 52) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C3orf58	empty	C3orf58 (Chromosome 3 Open Reading Frame 58) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C3orf58 include hypoxia. Among its related pathways are PAK Pathway. An important paralog of this gene is CXorf36.	May play a role in cardiomyocyte proliferation through paracrine signaling and activation of the PPI3K-AKT-CDK7 signaling cascade.	same
C3orf59	empty	MB21D2 (Mab-21 Domain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is TMEM102.	empty	diff
C3orf66	empty	LINC00488 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 488) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C3orf62	empty	C3orf62 (Chromosome 3 Open Reading Frame 62) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C3orf64	empty	EOGT (EGF Domain-Specific O-Linked N-Acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) Transferase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with EOGT include adams-oliver syndrome 4 and adams-oliver syndrome 3. Among its related pathways are Other types of O-glycan biosynthesis. GO annotations related to this gene include protein N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is POMGNT2.	Catalyzes the transfer of a single N-acetylglucosamine from UDP-GlcNAc to a serine or threonine residue in extracellular proteins resulting in their modification with a beta-linked N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc). Specifically glycosylates the Thr residue located between the fifth and sixth conserved cysteines of folded EGF-like domains.	diff
C3orf48	empty	PP2D1 (Protein Phosphatase 2C-Like Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C3orf67	empty	C3orf67 (Chromosome 3 Open Reading Frame 67) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C3orf70	empty	C3orf70 (Chromosome 3 Open Reading Frame 70) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C3orf75	empty	ELP6 (Elongator Acetyltransferase Complex Subunit 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are RNA Polymerase I Promoter Opening and RNA Polymerase I Promoter Opening.	Acts as subunit of the RNA polymerase II elongator complex, which is a histone acetyltransferase component of the RNA polymerase II (Pol II) holoenzyme and is involved in transcriptional elongation. Elongator may play a role in chromatin remodeling and is involved in acetylation of histones H3 and probably H4. Involved in cell migration	diff
C3orf72	empty	FOXL2NB (FOXL2 Neighbor) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C3orf71	empty	ARIH2OS (Ariadne Homolog 2 Opposite Strand) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C3orf74	empty	LINC00696 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 696) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C3orf79	empty	C3orf79 (Chromosome 3 Open Reading Frame 79) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C3	Complement component C3 plays a central role in the activation of complement system. Its activation is required for both classical and alternative complement activation pathways. A peptide (C3a) derived from the encoded protein has antimicrobial activity, so people with C3 deficiency are susceptible to bacterial infection. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]	C3 (Complement Component 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C3 include hemolytic uremic syndrome, atypical 5 and macular degeneration, age-related, 9. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and C5L2 anaphylatoxin chemotactic receptor binding. An important paralog of this gene is CD109.	C3 plays a central role in the activation of the complement system. Its processing by C3 convertase is the central reaction in both classical and alternative complement pathways. After activation C3b can bind covalently, via its reactive thioester, to cell surface carbohydrates or immune aggregates	same
C3orf63	empty	FAM208A (Family With Sequence Similarity 208, Member A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with FAM208A include retinoblastoma. An important paralog of this gene is FAM208B.	empty	diff
C4orf10	empty	NOP14-AS1 (NOP14 Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class.	empty	diff
C4orf11	empty	LINC00575 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 575) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C4BPA	This gene encodes a member of a superfamily of proteins composed predominantly of tandemly arrayed short consensus repeats of approximately 60 amino acids. Along with a single, unique beta-chain, seven identical alpha-chains encoded by this gene assemble into the predominant isoform of C4b-binding protein, a multimeric protein that controls activation of the complement cascade through the classical pathway. The genes encoding both alpha and beta chains are located adjacent to each other on human chromosome 1 in the regulator of complement activation gene cluster. Two pseudogenes of this gene are also found in the cluster. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	C4BPA (Complement Component 4 Binding Protein, Alpha) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C4BPA include gonorrhea and protein s deficiency. Among its related pathways are Complement and coagulation cascades and CD40/CD40L signaling. An important paralog of this gene is CSMD3.	Controls the classical pathway of complement activation. It binds as a cofactor to C3b/C4b inactivator (C3bINA), which then hydrolyzes the complement fragment C4b. It also accelerates the degradation of the C4bC2a complex (C3 convertase) by dissociating the complement fragment C2a. Alpha chain binds C4b. It interacts also with anticoagulant protein S and with serum amyloid P component	same
C3orf65	empty	IGF2BP2-AS1 (IGF2BP2 Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class.	empty	diff
C4orf12	empty	WDFY3-AS2 (WDFY3 Antisense RNA 2) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class.	empty	diff
C4orf17	empty	C4orf17 (Chromosome 4 Open Reading Frame 17) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C4orf19	empty	C4orf19 (Chromosome 4 Open Reading Frame 19) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C4A	This gene encodes the acidic form of complement factor 4, part of the classical activation pathway. The protein is expressed as a single chain precursor which is proteolytically cleaved into a trimer of alpha, beta, and gamma chains prior to secretion. The trimer provides a surface for interaction between the antigen-antibody complex and other complement components. The alpha chain is cleaved to release C4 anaphylatoxin, an antimicrobial peptide and a mediator of local inflammation. Deficiency of this protein is associated with systemic lupus erythematosus and type I diabetes mellitus. This gene localizes to the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class III region on chromosome 6. Varying haplotypes of this gene cluster exist, such that individuals may have 1, 2, or 3 copies of this gene. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]	C4A (Complement Component 4A (Rodgers Blood Group)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C4A include c4a deficiency and c2 deficiency. Among its related pathways are Complement and coagulation cascades and Staphylococcus aureus infection. GO annotations related to this gene include endopeptidase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CD109.	Non-enzymatic component of C3 and C5 convertases and thus essential for the propagation of the classical complement pathway. Covalently binds to immunoglobulins and immune complexes and enhances the solubilization of immune aggregates and the clearance of IC through CR1 on erythrocytes. C4A isotype is responsible for effective binding to form amide bonds with immune aggregates or protein antigens, while C4B isotype catalyzes the transacylation of the thioester carbonyl group to form ester bonds with carbohydrate antigens	same
C4orf21	empty	ZGRF1 (Zinc Finger, GRF-Type Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is UPF1.	empty	diff
C4orf27	empty	C4orf27 (Chromosome 4 Open Reading Frame 27) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C4orf14	empty	NOA1 (Nitric Oxide Associated 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding and GTPase activity.	Involved in regulation of mitochondrial protein translation and respiration. Plays a role in mitochondria-mediated cell death. May act as a scaffolding protein or stabilizer of respiratory chain supercomplexes. Binds GTP.	diff
C4orf23	The protein encoded by this gene is a putative tRNA methyltransferase found in the cytoplasm. Defects in this gene may be a cause of partial epilepsy with pericentral spikes (PEPS), but that has not been proven definitively. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]	TRMT44 (TRNA Methyltransferase 44 Homolog (S. Cerevisiae)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include methyltransferase activity.	Probable adenosyl-L-methionine (AdoMet)-dependent tRNA (uracil-O(2)-)-methyltransferase.	diff
C3orf77	empty	TOPAZ1 (Testis And Ovary Specific PAZ Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C4orf33	empty	C4orf33 (Chromosome 4 Open Reading Frame 33) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C4orf32	empty	C4orf32 (Chromosome 4 Open Reading Frame 32) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C4BPB	This gene encodes a member of a superfamily of proteins composed predominantly of tandemly arrayed short consensus repeats of approximately 60 amino acids. A single, unique beta-chain encoded by this gene assembles with seven identical alpha-chains into the predominant isoform of C4b-binding protein, a multimeric protein that controls activation of the complement cascade through the classical pathway. C4b-binding protein has a regulatory role in the coagulation system also, mediated through the beta-chain binding of protein S, a vitamin K-dependent protein that serves as a cofactor of activated protein C. The genes encoding both alpha and beta chains are located adjacent to each other on human chromosome 1 in the regulator of complement activation gene cluster. Alternative splicing gives rise to multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	C4BPB (Complement Component 4 Binding Protein, Beta) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C4BPB include protein s deficiency. Among its related pathways are Complement and coagulation cascades and FOXA1 transcription factor network.	Controls the classical pathway of complement activation. It binds as a cofactor to C3b/C4b inactivator (C3bINA), which then hydrolyzes the complement fragment C4b. It also accelerates the degradation of the C4bC2a complex (C3 convertase) by dissociating the complement fragment C2a. It also interacts with anticoagulant protein S and with serum amyloid P component. The beta chain binds protein S	same
C4orf34	empty	SMIM14 (Small Integral Membrane Protein 14) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C4orf29	empty	C4orf29 (Chromosome 4 Open Reading Frame 29) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C4orf36	empty	C4orf36 (Chromosome 4 Open Reading Frame 36) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C4orf38	empty	WWC2-AS2 (WWC2 Antisense RNA 2) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C4orf22	empty	C4orf22 (Chromosome 4 Open Reading Frame 22) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C4orf35	empty	CABS1 (Calcium-Binding Protein, Spermatid-Specific 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding.	empty	diff
C4orf37	empty	STPG2 (Sperm-Tail PG-Rich Repeat Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C4orf26	Dental enamel forms the outer cap of teeth and is the hardest substance found in vertebrates. This gene is thought to encode an extracellular matrix acidic phosphoprotein that has a function in enamel mineralization during amelogenesis. Mutations in this gene are associated with recessive hypomineralized amelogenesis imperfecta. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2012]	C4orf26 (Chromosome 4 Open Reading Frame 26) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C4orf26 include amelogenesis imperfecta, type iia4 and amelogenesis imperfecta.	Might promote nucleation of hydroxyapatite.	same
C4orf42	empty	CTBP1-AS2 (CTBP1 Antisense RNA 2 (Head To Head)) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C4orf41	The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of the TRAPP (transport protein particle) tethering complex, which functions in intracellular vesicle trafficking. This subunit is involved in early stage endoplasmic reticulum-to-Golgi vesicle transport. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]	TRAPPC11 (Trafficking Protein Particle Complex 11) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with TRAPPC11 include muscular dystrophy, limb-girdle, type 2e and intellectual disability-hyperkinetic movement-truncal ataxia syndrome.	Involved in endoplasmic reticulum to Golgi apparatus trafficking at a very early stage.	diff
C4orf40	empty	PRR27 (Proline Rich 27) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C4orf3	empty	C4orf3 (Chromosome 4 Open Reading Frame 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C4orf3 include hepatitis c and hepatitis c virus.	empty	same
C4orf47	empty	C4orf47 (Chromosome 4 Open Reading Frame 47) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C4orf45	empty	C4orf45 (Chromosome 4 Open Reading Frame 45) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C4orf49	empty	MGARP (Mitochondria-Localized Glutamic Acid-Rich Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with MGARP include hypoxia.	Plays a role in the trafficking of mitochondria along microtubules. Regulates the kinesin-mediated axonal transport of mitochondria to nerve terminals along microtubules during hypoxia. Participates in the translocation of TRAK2/GRIF1 from the cytoplasm to the mitochondrion. Also plays a role in steroidogenesis through maintenance of mitochondrial abundance and morphology (By similarity).	diff
C4orf46	This gene encodes a small, conserved protein of unknown function that is expressed in a variety of tissues. There are pseudogenes for this gene on chromosomes 6, 8, 16, and X. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2013]	C4orf46 (Chromosome 4 Open Reading Frame 46) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C4orf48	empty	C4orf48 (Chromosome 4 Open Reading Frame 48) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C4orf50	empty	C4orf50 (Chromosome 4 Open Reading Frame 50) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C4orf31	empty	NDNF (Neuron-Derived Neurotrophic Factor) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include heparin binding and glycosaminoglycan binding.	Promotes matrix assembly and cell adhesiveness (By similarity). Promotes neuron migration, growth and survival as well as neurite outgrowth.	diff
C4orf39	empty	FAM218A (Family With Sequence Similarity 218, Member A) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C4orf43	empty	TMA16 (Translation Machinery Associated 16 Homolog (S. Cerevisiae)) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C4orf6	This gene is expressed in neuroblastoma; however, the function of this gene is not yet determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	LINC01587 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 1587) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class.	empty	diff
C5AR1	empty	C5AR1 (Complement Component 5a Receptor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C5AR1 include hypersensitivity reaction type iii disease and leukostasis. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include N-formyl peptide receptor activity and complement component C5a binding. An important paralog of this gene is FPR2.	Receptor for the chemotactic and inflammatory peptide anaphylatoxin C5a (PubMed:1847994, PubMed:8182049, PubMed:7622471, PubMed:9553099, PubMed:10636859, PubMed:15153520). The ligand interacts with at least two sites on the receptor: a high-affinity site on the extracellular N-terminus, and a second site in the transmembrane region which activates downstream signaling events (PubMed:8182049, PubMed:7622471, PubMed:9553099). Receptor activation stimulates chemotaxis, granule enzyme release, intracellular calcium release and superoxide anion production (PubMed:10636859, PubMed:15153520).	same
C4orf7	This gene encodes a small secreted protein that is expressed in follicular dendritic cells. This protein specifically binds to activated B cells, and functions as a regulator of antibody responses. It is also thought to contribute to tumor metastases by promoting cancer cell migration and invasion. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	FDCSP (Follicular Dendritic Cell Secreted Protein) is a Protein Coding gene.	Can bind to the surface of B-lymphoma cells, but not T-lymphoma cells, consistent with a function as a secreted mediator acting upon B-cells	diff
C4orf44	empty	MSANTD1 (Myb/SANT-Like DNA-Binding Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C5orf20	This intronless gene is specifically expressed in dendritic cells (DCs), which are potent antigen-presenting cells involved in activating naive T cells to initiate antigen-specific immune response. The encoded protein is localized mainly in the perinucleus. One of the alleles (A/T) of this gene, that causes premature translation termination at aa 117, has been associated with an increased prevalence of major depression in humans. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DCANP1 (Dendritic Cell-Associated Nuclear Protein) is a Protein Coding gene.	Binds with and transactivates the corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) promoter.	diff
C4orf52	empty	SMIM20 (Small Integral Membrane Protein 20) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C5orf15	empty	C5orf15 (Chromosome 5 Open Reading Frame 15) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C5orf22	empty	C5orf22 (Chromosome 5 Open Reading Frame 22) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C5orf24	empty	C5orf24 (Chromosome 5 Open Reading Frame 24) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C4orf51	empty	C4orf51 (Chromosome 4 Open Reading Frame 51) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C5orf27	empty	LINC01554 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 1554) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class.	empty	diff
C5orf30	empty	C5orf30 (Chromosome 5 Open Reading Frame 30) is a Protein Coding gene.	Probably plays a role in trafficking of proteins via its interaction with UNC119 and UNC119B cargo adapters: may help the release of UNC119 and UNC119B cargo or the recycling of UNC119 and UNC119B. May play a role in ciliary membrane localization via its interaction with UNC119B and protein transport into photoreceptor cells.	same
C5orf13	empty	NREP (Neuronal Regeneration Related Protein) is a Protein Coding gene.	May have roles in neural function. Ectopic expression augments motility of gliomas. Promotes also axonal regeneration (By similarity). May also have functions in cellular differentiation (By similarity). Induces differentiation of fibroblast into myofibroblast and myofibroblast ameboid migration. Increases retinoic-acid regulation of lipid-droplet biogenesis (By similarity). Down-regulates the expression of TGFB1 and TGFB2 but not of TGFB3 (By similarity). May play a role in the regulation of alveolar generation.	diff
C5orf33	This gene encodes a mitochondrial kinase that catalyzes the phosphorylation of NAD to yield NADP. Mutations in this gene result in 2,4-dienoyl-CoA reductase deficiency. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014]	NADK2 (NAD Kinase 2, Mitochondrial) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with NADK2 include 2,4-dienoyl-coa reductase deficiency. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and NAD+ kinase activity.	Mitochondrial NAD(+) kinase that phosphorylates NAD(+) to yield NADP(+). Can use both ATP or inorganic polyphosphate as the phosphoryl donor. Also has weak NADH kinase activity in vitro; however NADH kinase activity is much weaker than the NAD(+) kinase activity and may not be relevant in vivo.	diff
C5orf34	empty	C5orf34 (Chromosome 5 Open Reading Frame 34) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C5orf28	empty	C5orf28 (Chromosome 5 Open Reading Frame 28) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C5orf36	empty	KIAA0825 (KIAA0825) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C5orf23	This gene encodes one of three natriuretic peptide receptors. Natriutetic peptides are small peptides which regulate blood volume and pressure, pulmonary hypertension, and cardiac function as well as some metabolic and growth processes. The product of this gene encodes a natriuretic peptide receptor responsible for clearing circulating and extracellular natriuretic peptides through endocytosis of the receptor. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]	NPR3 (Natriuretic Peptide Receptor 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with NPR3 include pulmonary hypertension and obesity. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and hormone binding.	Receptor for the natriuretic peptide hormones, binding with similar affinities atrial natriuretic peptide NPPA/ANP, brain natriuretic peptide NPPB/BNP, and C-type natriuretic peptide NPPC/CNP. May function as a clearance receptor for NPPA, NPPB and NPPC, regulating their local concentrations and effects. May regulate diuresis, blood pressure and skeletal development. Does not have guanylate cyclase activity	diff
C5orf32	empty	CYSTM1 (Cysteine-Rich Transmembrane Module Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C5orf35	empty	SETD9 (SET Domain Containing 9) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include methyltransferase activity.	empty	diff
C5orf38	empty	C5orf38 (Chromosome 5 Open Reading Frame 38) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C5orf41	empty	CREBRF (CREB3 Regulatory Factor) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and sequence-specific DNA binding.	Acts as a negative regulator of the endoplasmic reticulum stress response or unfolded protein response (UPR). Represses the transcriptional activity of CREB3 during the UPR. Recruits CREB3 into nuclear foci.	diff
C5orf40	empty	FNDC9 (Fibronectin Type III Domain Containing 9) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C5orf42	The protein encoded by this gene has putative coiled-coil domains and may be a transmembrane protein. Defects in this gene are a cause of Joubert syndrome (JBTS). [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]	C5orf42 (Chromosome 5 Open Reading Frame 42) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C5orf42 include joubert syndrome 17 and orofaciodigital syndrome vi.	empty	same
C5orf44	empty	TRAPPC13 (Trafficking Protein Particle Complex 13) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C5orf25	empty	SIMC1 (SUMO-Interacting Motifs Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include SUMO polymer binding.	empty	diff
C5orf45	empty	C5orf45 (Chromosome 5 Open Reading Frame 45) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C5orf47	empty	C5orf47 (Chromosome 5 Open Reading Frame 47) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C5orf51	empty	C5orf51 (Chromosome 5 Open Reading Frame 51) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C5orf49	empty	C5orf49 (Chromosome 5 Open Reading Frame 49) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C5orf39	empty	ANXA2R (Annexin A2 Receptor) is a Protein Coding gene.	May act as a receptor for annexin II on marrow stromal cells to induce osteoclast formation	diff
C5orf52	empty	C5orf52 (Chromosome 5 Open Reading Frame 52) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C5orf4	empty	FAXDC2 (Fatty Acid Hydroxylase Domain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and superpathway of cholesterol biosynthesis. GO annotations related to this gene include iron ion binding and oxidoreductase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CH25H.	empty	diff
C5orf53	empty	IGIP (IgA-Inducing Protein) is a Protein Coding gene.	Enhances IgA secretion from B-cells stimulated via CD40.	diff
C5orf54	empty	ZBED8 (Zinc Finger, BED-Type Containing 8) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is FAM200B.	empty	diff
C5orf56	empty	C5orf56 (Chromosome 5 Open Reading Frame 56) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the ncRNA class.	empty	same
C5orf58	empty	C5orf58 (Chromosome 5 Open Reading Frame 58) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C5orf43	empty	SMIM15 (Small Integral Membrane Protein 15) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C5	The protein encoded by this gene is the fifth component of complement, which plays an important role in inflammatory and cell killing processes. This protein is comprised of alpha and beta polypeptide chains that are linked by a disulfide bridge. An activation peptide, C5a, which is an anaphylatoxin that possesses potent spasmogenic and chemotactic activity, is derived from the alpha polypeptide via cleavage with a convertase. The C5b macromolecular cleavage product can form a complex with the C6 complement component, and this complex is the basis for formation of the membrane attack complex, which includes additional complement components. Mutations in this gene cause complement component 5 deficiency, a disease where patients show a propensity for severe recurrent infections. Defects in this gene have also been linked to a susceptibility to liver fibrosis and to rheumatoid arthritis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	C5 (Complement Component 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C5 include c5 deficiency and rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and endopeptidase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CD109.	Activation of C5 by a C5 convertase initiates the spontaneous assembly of the late complement components, C5-C9, into the membrane attack complex. C5b has a transient binding site for C6. The C5b-C6 complex is the foundation upon which the lytic complex is assembled	same
C5orf62	empty	SMIM3 (Small Integral Membrane Protein 3) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C5orf60	empty	C5orf60 (Chromosome 5 Open Reading Frame 60) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C5orf46	empty	C5orf46 (Chromosome 5 Open Reading Frame 46) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C5orf48	empty	TEX43 (Testis Expressed 43) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C6orf103	empty	ADGB (Androglobin) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include iron ion binding and oxygen binding.	empty	diff
C6orf105	empty	ADTRP (Androgen-Dependent TFPI-Regulating Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is AIG1.	Regulates the expression and the cell-associated anticoagulant activity of the inhibitor TFPI in endothelial cells (in vitro).	diff
C6orf106	empty	C6orf106 (Chromosome 6 Open Reading Frame 106) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C6orf118	empty	C6orf118 (Chromosome 6 Open Reading Frame 118) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C6orf10	empty	C6orf10 (Chromosome 6 Open Reading Frame 10) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C6orf122	empty	LINC00242 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 242) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C6orf120	empty	C6orf120 (Chromosome 6 Open Reading Frame 120) is a Protein Coding gene.	May be involved in induction of apoptosis in CD4(+) T-cells, but not CD8(+) T-cells or hepatocytes.	same
C5orf55	empty	EXOC3-AS1 (EXOC3 Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class.	empty	diff
C6orf108	This gene was identified on the basis of its stimulation by c-Myc protein. The latter is a transcription factor that participates in the regulation of cell proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis. The exact function of this gene is not known but studies in rat suggest a role in cellular proliferation and c-Myc-mediated transformation. Two alternative transcripts encoding different proteins have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DNPH1 (2'-Deoxynucleoside 5'-Phosphate N-Hydrolase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleoside deoxyribosyltransferase activity and deoxyribonucleoside 5-monophosphate N-glycosidase activity.	Catalyzes the cleavage of the N-glycosidic bond of deoxyribonucleoside 5-monophosphates to yield deoxyribose 5-phosphate and a purine or pyrimidine base. Deoxyribonucleoside 5-monophosphates containing purine bases are preferred to those containing pyrimidine bases.	diff
C6orf114	empty	GFOD1 (Glucose-Fructose Oxidoreductase Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include oxidoreductase activity. An important paralog of this gene is GFOD2.	empty	diff
C6orf124	empty	MLLT4-AS1 (MLLT4 Antisense RNA 1 (Head To Head)) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C6orf115	empty	ABRACL (ABRA C-Terminal Like) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C6orf130	empty	OARD1 (O-Acyl-ADP-Ribose Deacylase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include deacetylase activity and purine nucleoside binding.	Deacetylates O-acetyl-ADP ribose, a signaling molecule generated by the deacetylation of acetylated lysine residues in histones and other proteins. Catalyzes the deacylation of O-acetyl-ADP-ribose, O-propionyl-ADP-ribose and O-butyryl-ADP-ribose, yielding ADP-ribose plus acetate, propionate and butyrate, respectively	diff
C6orf127	empty	CLPSL1 (Colipase-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include enzyme activator activity.	empty	diff
C6orf132	empty	C6orf132 (Chromosome 6 Open Reading Frame 132) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C6orf141	empty	C6orf141 (Chromosome 6 Open Reading Frame 141) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C6orf125	This gene encodes a nucleoid protein localized to the mitochondria inner membrane. The encoded protein affects regulation of insulin secretion, mitochondrial ATP production, and myogenesis through modulation of mitochondrial respiratory chain activity. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2012]	UQCC2 (Ubiquinol-Cytochrome C Reductase Complex Assembly Factor 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with UQCC2 include mitochondrial complex iii deficiency, nuclear type 7 and mitochondrial complex iii deficiency.	Required for the assembly of the ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase complex (mitochondrial respiratory chain complex III or cytochrome b-c1 complex). Plays a role in the modulation of respiratory chain activities such as oxygen consumption and ATP production and via its modulation of the respiratory chain activity can regulate skeletal muscle differentiation and insulin secretion by pancreatic beta-cells. Involved in cytochrome b translation and/or stability.	diff
C6orf126	empty	empty	empty	same
C6orf129	empty	CCDC167 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 167) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C6orf136	empty	C6orf136 (Chromosome 6 Open Reading Frame 136) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C6orf123	empty	LINC01558 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 1558) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class.	empty	diff
C6orf142	empty	MLIP (Muscular LMNA-Interacting Protein) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C6orf153	RRP36 functions at an early stage in the processing of 35S preribosomal RNA into the mature 18S species (Gerus et al., 2010 [PubMed 20038530]).[supplied by OMIM, Jul 2010]	RRP36 (Ribosomal RNA Processing 36 Homolog (S. Cerevisiae)) is a Protein Coding gene.	Involved in the early processing steps of the pre-rRNA in the maturation pathway leading to the 18S rRNA.	diff
C6orf146	empty	FAM217A (Family With Sequence Similarity 217, Member A) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C6orf134	empty	ATAT1 (Alpha Tubulin Acetyltransferase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Carbon metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include tubulin N-acetyltransferase activity.	Specifically acetylates Lys-40 in alpha-tubulin on the lumenal side of microtubules. Required for normal sperm flagellar function. Promotes microtubule destabilization and accelerates microtubule dynamics; this activity may be independent of acetylation activity. Promotes directional cell locomotion and chemotaxis, through AP2A2-dependent acetylation of alpha-tubulin at clathrin-coated pits that are concentrated at the leading edge of migrating cells. May facilitate primary cilium assembly.	diff
C6orf162	empty	SMIM8 (Small Integral Membrane Protein 8) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000226524.	empty	diff
C6orf165	empty	C6orf165 (Chromosome 6 Open Reading Frame 165) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C6orf164	empty	LINC01590 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 1590) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000226524.	empty	diff
C6orf163	empty	C6orf163 (Chromosome 6 Open Reading Frame 163) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C6orf155	empty	LINC00472 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 472) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C6orf154	empty	LRRC73 (Leucine Rich Repeat Containing 73) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C6orf15	empty	C6orf15 (Chromosome 6 Open Reading Frame 15) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C6orf15 include follicular lymphoma. GO annotations related to this gene include heparin binding and fibronectin binding.	empty	same
C6orf150	empty	MB21D1 (Mab-21 Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cytosolic sensors of pathogen-associated DNA and Cytosolic sensors of pathogen-associated DNA. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding and cyclic-GMP-AMP synthase activity.	Nucleotidyltransferase that catalyzes the formation of cyclic GMP-AMP (cGAMP) from ATP and GTP. Catalysis involves both the formation of a 2,5 phosphodiester linkage at the GpA step and the formation of a 3,5 phosphodiester linkage at the ApG step, producing c[G(2,5)pA(3,5)p]. Has antiviral activity by acting as a key cytosolic DNA sensor, the presence of double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) in the cytoplasm being a danger signal that triggers the immune responses. Binds cytosolic DNA directly, leading to activation and synthesis of cGAMP, a second messenger that binds to and activates TMEM173/STING, thereby triggering type-I interferon production.	diff
C6orf168	empty	FAXC (Failed Axon Connections Homolog (Drosophila)) is a Protein Coding gene.	May play a role in axonal development.	diff
C6orf147	empty	KHDC1 (KH Homology Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000243501.	empty	diff
C6orf170	This gene encodes a TBC-domain containing protein. Studies of a similar protein in mouse and zebrafish suggest that the encoded protein is involved in sonic hedgehog signaling, and that it interacts with and stabilizes cell cycle-related kinase. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]	TBC1D32 (TBC1 Domain Family, Member 32) is a Protein Coding gene.	Required for high-level Shh responses in the developing neural tube. Together with CDK20, controls the structure of the primary cilium by coordinating assembly of the ciliary membrane and axoneme, allowing GLI2 to be properly activated in response to Shh signaling (By similarity).	diff
C1orf157	empty	LINC00303 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 303) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C6orf167	empty	MMS22L (MMS22-Like, DNA Repair Protein) is a Protein Coding gene.	Component of the MMS22L-TONSL complex, a complex that stimulates the recombination-dependent repair of stalled or collapsed replication forks. The MMS22L-TONSL complex is required to maintain genome integrity during DNA replication by promoting homologous recombination-mediated repair of replication fork-associated double-strand breaks. It may act by mediating the assembly of RAD51 filaments on ssDNA.	diff
C6orf176	empty	LINC00473 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 473) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	May play a role in cAMP-mediated gene transcription.	diff
C6orf138	empty	PTCHD4 (Patched Domain Containing 4) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include hedgehog receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is PTCHD1.	empty	diff
C6orf174	empty	SOGA3 (SOGA Family Member 3) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is SOGA1.	empty	diff
C6orf182	empty	CEP57L1 (Centrosomal Protein 57kDa-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and gamma-tubulin binding. An important paralog of this gene is CEP57.	Centrosomal protein which may be required for microtubule attachment to centrosomes.	diff
C6orf186	empty	METTL24 (Methyltransferase Like 24) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include methyltransferase activity.	empty	diff
C6orf195	empty	LINC01600 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 1600) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class.	empty	diff
C6orf192	This gene encodes a protein, which has high sequence similarity to rat, xenopus and zebrafish proteins. The protein function is unknown. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	SLC18B1 (Solute Carrier Family 18, Subfamily B, Member 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is SLC18A2.	empty	diff
C6orf201	empty	C6orf201 (Chromosome 6 Open Reading Frame 201) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C6orf191	empty	TMEM244 (Transmembrane Protein 244) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C6orf203	empty	C6orf203 (Chromosome 6 Open Reading Frame 203) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C6orf208	empty	LINC00574 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 574) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C6orf1	empty	C6orf1 (Chromosome 6 Open Reading Frame 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C6orf211	empty	ARMT1 (Acidic Residue Methyltransferase 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	O-methyltransferase that methylates glutamate residues of target proteins to form gamma-glutamyl methyl ester residues. Methylates PCNA, suggesting it is involved in the DNA damage response.	diff
C6orf217	empty	LINC00271 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 271) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class.	empty	diff
C6orf204	The protein encoded by this gene was identified as a breast cancer antigen. Nothing more is known of its function at this time. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	CEP85L (Centrosomal Protein 85kDa-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CEP85L include breast cancer. An important paralog of this gene is CEP85.	empty	diff
C6orf218	empty	LINC00518 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 518) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C6orf221	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the KHDC1 family, members of which contain an atypical KH domain that may not bind RNA like canonical KH domains. This gene is specifically expressed in the oocytes, and recent studies suggest that it may function as a regulator of genomic imprinting in the oocyte. Mutations in this gene are associated with recurrent biparental complete hydatidiform mole. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	KHDC3L (KH Domain Containing 3-Like, Subcortical Maternal Complex Member) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with KHDC3L include hydatidiform mole, recurrent, 2 and gestational trophoblastic neoplasm. An important paralog of this gene is OOEP.	empty	diff
C6orf222	empty	C6orf222 (Chromosome 6 Open Reading Frame 222) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C6orf223	empty	C6orf223 (Chromosome 6 Open Reading Frame 223) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C6orf226	empty	C6orf226 (Chromosome 6 Open Reading Frame 226) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C6orf227	empty	LINC00336 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 336) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C6orf26	empty	SAPCD1 (Suppressor APC Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Ovarian Infertility Genes.	empty	diff
C6orf41	empty	LINC00240 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 240) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C6orf25	This gene is a member of the immunoglobulin (Ig) superfamily and is located in the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class III region. The protein encoded by this gene is a glycosylated, plasma membrane-bound cell surface receptor, but soluble isoforms encoded by some transcript variants have been found in the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi before being secreted. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	C6orf25 (Chromosome 6 Open Reading Frame 25) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C6orf25 include gray platelet syndrome and paraneoplastic pemphigus. GO annotations related to this gene include heparin binding.	Inhibits platelet aggregation and activation by agonists such as ADP and collagen-related peptide. Appears to operate in a calcium-independent manner. Isoform B is a putative inhibitory receptor. Isoform A may be its activating counterpart.	same
C6orf27	empty	VWA7 (Von Willebrand Factor A Domain Containing 7) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C6orf47	empty	C6orf47 (Chromosome 6 Open Reading Frame 47) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C6orf47 include human t-cell leukemia virus type 1.	empty	same
C6orf57	empty	SDHAF4 (Succinate Dehydrogenase Complex Assembly Factor 4) is a Protein Coding gene.	Plays an essential role in the assembly of succinate dehydrogenase (SDH), an enzyme complex (also referred to as respiratory complex II) that is a component of both the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle and the mitochondrial electron transport chain, and which couples the oxidation of succinate to fumarate with the reduction of ubiquinone (coenzyme Q) to ubiquinol (PubMed:24954416). Binds to the flavoprotein subunit SDHA in its FAD-bound form, blocking the generation of excess reactive oxigen species (ROS) and facilitating its assembly with the iron-sulfur protein subunit SDHB into the SDH catalytic dimer (By similarity).	diff
C6orf35	empty	TMEM242 (Transmembrane Protein 242) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C6orf58	empty	C6orf58 (Chromosome 6 Open Reading Frame 58) is a Protein Coding gene.	May be involved in early liver development.	same
C6orf62	empty	C6orf62 (Chromosome 6 Open Reading Frame 62) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C6orf70	empty	empty	empty	same
C6orf225	empty	FAM229B (Family With Sequence Similarity 229, Member B) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C6orf81	empty	ARMC12 (Armadillo Repeat Containing 12) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C6orf89	empty	C6orf89 (Chromosome 6 Open Reading Frame 89) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Ras signaling pathway.	Exhibits histone deacetylase (HDAC) enhancer properties. May play a role in cell cycle progression and wound repair of bronchial epithelial cells.	same
C6orf64	empty	SAYSD1 (SAYSVFN Motif Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C6orf94	empty	ZC2HC1B (Zinc Finger, C2HC-Type Containing 1B) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ZC2HC1A.	empty	diff
C6orf72	empty	GINM1 (Glycoprotein Integral Membrane 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C6orf97	The function of this gene and its encoded protein is not known. Several genome-wide association studies have implicated the region around this gene to be involved in breast cancer and bone mineral density, but no link to this specific gene has been found. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	CCDC170 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 170) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCDC170 include breast cancer.	empty	diff
C6orf52	empty	C6orf52 (Chromosome 6 Open Reading Frame 52) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is TRNAU1AP.	empty	same
C6orf48	empty	C6orf48 (Chromosome 6 Open Reading Frame 48) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C6orf59	empty	empty	empty	same
C6	This gene encodes a component of the complement cascade. The encoded protein is part of the membrane attack complex that can be incorporated into the cell membrane and cause cell lysis. Mutations in this gene are associated with complement component-6 deficiency. Transcript variants encoding the same protein have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2012]	C6 (Complement Component 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C6 include c6 deficiency and neisseria meningitidis infection. Among its related pathways are Complement and coagulation cascades and Complement and coagulation cascades. An important paralog of this gene is C8B.	Constituent of the membrane attack complex (MAC) that plays a key role in the innate and adaptive immune response by forming pores in the plasma membrane of target cells	same
C7orf13	empty	C7orf13 (Chromosome 7 Open Reading Frame 13) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the ncRNA class.	empty	same
C7orf11	The protein encoded by this gene localizes to the centrosome during mitosis and to the midbody during cytokinesis. The protein is phosphorylated by cyclin-dependent kinase 1 during mitosis and subsequently interacts with polo-like kinase 1. The protein is thought to function in regulating mitosis and cytokinesis. Mutations in this gene result in nonphotosensitive trichothiodystrophy. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]	MPLKIP (M-Phase Specific PLK1 Interacting Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with MPLKIP include trichothiodystrophy, nonphotosensitive 1 and nonphotosensitive trichothiodystrophy.	May play a role in maintenance of cell cycle integrity by regulating mitosis or cytokinesis.	diff
C7orf16	The protein encoded by this gene is found primarily in cerebellar Purkinje cells, where it functions as a protein phosphatase inhibitor. The encoded protein is a substrate for cGMP-dependent protein kinase. An allele of this gene was discovered that increases susceptibility to hypercholesterolemia. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]	PPP1R17 (Protein Phosphatase 1, Regulatory Subunit 17) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Long-term depression. GO annotations related to this gene include protein phosphatase inhibitor activity and protein serine/threonine phosphatase inhibitor activity.	Inhibits phosphatase activities of protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) and protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) complexes.	diff
C7orf25	empty	C7orf25 (Chromosome 7 Open Reading Frame 25) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C7orf23	empty	TMEM243 (Transmembrane Protein 243, Mitochondrial) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C7orf29	empty	ZBED6CL (ZBED6 C-Terminal Like) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C7orf27	The protein encoded by this ubiquitously expressed gene interacts with the tumor suppressing BRCA1 (breast cancer 1) protein and and the ATM (ataxia telangiectasia mutated) protein. ATM is thought to be a master controller of cell cycle checkpoint signalling pathways that are required for cellular responses to DNA damage such as double-strand breaks that are induced by ionizing radiation and complexes with BRCA1 in the multi-protein complex BASC (BRAC1-associated genome surveillance complex). The protein encoded by this gene is thought to play a role in the DNA damage pathway regulated by BRCA1 and ATM. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]	BRAT1 (BRCA1-Associated ATM Activator 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BRAT1 include rigidity and multifocal seizure syndrome, lethal neonatal and breast cancer.	Required for activation of ATM following ionizing radiation. May act by regulating dephosphorylation of ATM.	diff
C7orf30	empty	MALSU1 (Mitochondrial Assembly Of Ribosomal Large Subunit 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	May function as a ribosomal silencing factor. Addition to isolated mitochondrial ribosomal subunits partially inhibits translation. Interacts with mitochondrial ribosomal protein L14 (MRPL14), probably blocking formation of intersubunit bridge B8, preventing association of the 28S and 39S ribosomal subunits and the formation of functional ribosomes, thus repressing translation. May also participate in the assembly and/or regulation of the stability of the large subunit of the mitochondrial ribosome.	diff
C7orf28A	empty	CCZ1 (CCZ1 Vacuolar Protein Trafficking And Biogenesis Associated Homolog (S. Cerevisiae)) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CCZ1B.	empty	diff
C7orf31	empty	C7orf31 (Chromosome 7 Open Reading Frame 31) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C7orf26	empty	C7orf26 (Chromosome 7 Open Reading Frame 26) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C7orf36	empty	YAE1D1 (Yae1 Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C7orf41	empty	MTURN (Maturin, Neural Progenitor Differentiation Regulator Homolog (Xenopus)) is a Protein Coding gene.	May be involved in early neuronal development.	diff
C7orf34	empty	C7orf34 (Chromosome 7 Open Reading Frame 34) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C7orf33	empty	C7orf33 (Chromosome 7 Open Reading Frame 33) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C7orf40	empty	SNHG15 (Small Nucleolar RNA Host Gene 15) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C7orf28B	empty	CCZ1B (CCZ1 Vacuolar Protein Trafficking And Biogenesis Associated Homolog B (S. Cerevisiae)) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CCZ1.	empty	diff
C7orf42	empty	TMEM248 (Transmembrane Protein 248) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C7orf43	empty	C7orf43 (Chromosome 7 Open Reading Frame 43) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C7orf44	empty	COA1 (Cytochrome C Oxidase Assembly Factor 1 Homolog (S. Cerevisiae)) is a Protein Coding gene.	Component of some MITRAC complex, a cytochrome c oxidase (COX) assembly intermediate complex that regulates COX assembly. MITRAC complexes regulate both translation of mitochondrial encoded components and assembly of nuclear-encoded components imported in mitochondrion. Required for assembly of mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I and complex IV.	diff
C7orf46	empty	FAM221A (Family With Sequence Similarity 221, Member A) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C7orf45	empty	SSMEM1 (Serine-Rich Single-Pass Membrane Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C7orf4	empty	LINC00244 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 244) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C7orf10	This gene encodes a protein that is similar to members of the CaiB/baiF CoA-transferase protein family. Mutations in this gene are associated with glutaric aciduria type III. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]	SUGCT (Succinyl-CoA:Glutarate-CoA Transferase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with SUGCT include glutaric acidemia type 3. An important paralog of this gene is AMACR.	Catalyzes the succinyl-CoA-dependent conversion of glutarate to glutaryl-CoA. Can use different dicarboxylic acids as CoA acceptors, the preferred ones are glutarate, succinate, adipate, and 3-hydroxymethylglutarate.	diff
C7orf51	empty	NYAP1 (Neuronal Tyrosine-Phosphorylated Phosphoinositide-3-Kinase Adaptor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is NYAP2.	Activates PI3K and concomitantly recruits the WAVE1 complex to the close vicinity of PI3K and regulates neuronal morphogenesis.	diff
C7orf52	empty	NAT16 (N-Acetyltransferase 16 (GCN5-Related, Putative)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include N-acetyltransferase activity.	Probable N-acetyltransferase. Shows only trace activity toward L-His and no N-acetyltransferase activity toward other amino acids. The physiological substrate of this enzyme is unknown.	diff
C7orf50	empty	C7orf50 (Chromosome 7 Open Reading Frame 50) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C7orf54	empty	SND1-IT1 (SND1 Intronic Transcript 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class. Diseases associated with SND1-IT1 include nasopharyngeal carcinoma.	empty	diff
C7orf57	empty	C7orf57 (Chromosome 7 Open Reading Frame 57) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C7orf53	empty	LSMEM1 (Leucine-Rich Single-Pass Membrane Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C7orf58	empty	CPED1 (Cadherin-Like And PC-Esterase Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C7orf55	empty	C7orf55 (Chromosome 7 Open Reading Frame 55) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C7orf55 include intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma.	empty	same
C7orf59	empty	LAMTOR4 (Late Endosomal/Lysosomal Adaptor, MAPK And MTOR Activator 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are PI3K / Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity and protein complex scaffold.	As part of the Ragulator complex it is involved in amino acid sensing and activation of mTORC1, a signaling complex promoting cell growth in response to growth factors, energy levels, and amino acids. Activated by amino acids through a mechanism involving the lysosomal V-ATPase, the Ragulator functions as a guanine nucleotide exchange factor activating the small GTPases Rag. Activated Ragulator and Rag GTPases function as a scaffold recruiting mTORC1 to lysosomes where it is in turn activated.	diff
C7orf60	empty	C7orf60 (Chromosome 7 Open Reading Frame 60) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include methyltransferase activity.	Probable S-adenosyl-L-methionine-dependent methyltransferase.	same
C7orf65	empty	C7orf65 (Chromosome 7 Open Reading Frame 65) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C7orf63	empty	CFAP69 (Cilia And Flagella Associated Protein 69) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C7orf61	empty	C7orf61 (Chromosome 7 Open Reading Frame 61) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C7orf49	empty	C7orf49 (Chromosome 7 Open Reading Frame 49) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C7orf49 include post-traumatic stress disorder and colorectal cancer.	May act as a regulator of proteasome.	same
C7orf64	empty	RBM48 (RNA Binding Motif Protein 48) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding.	empty	diff
C7orf70	empty	FAM220A (Family With Sequence Similarity 220, Member A) is a Protein Coding gene.	May negatively regulate STAT3.	diff
C7orf66	empty	C7orf66 (Chromosome 7 Open Reading Frame 66) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C7orf69	empty	C7orf69 (Chromosome 7 Open Reading Frame 69) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C7orf68	empty	HILPDA (Hypoxia Inducible Lipid Droplet-Associated) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with HILPDA include end stage renal failure and hypoxia. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding.	Increases intracellular lipid accumulation. Stimulates expression of cytokines including IL6, MIF and VEGFA. Enhances cell growth and proliferation.	diff
C7orf71	empty	C7orf71 (Chromosome 7 Open Reading Frame 71) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C7orf72	empty	C7orf72 (Chromosome 7 Open Reading Frame 72) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C8orf12	empty	FAM167A-AS1 (FAM167A Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class.	empty	diff
C8B	This gene encodes one of the three subunits of the complement component 8 (C8) protein. C8 is composed of equimolar amounts of alpha, beta and gamma subunits, which are encoded by three separate genes. C8 is one component of the membrane attack complex, which mediates cell lysis, and it initiates membrane penetration of the complex. This protein mediates the interaction of C8 with the C5b-7 membrane attack complex precursor. In humans deficiency of this protein is associated with increased risk of meningococcal infections. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2013]	C8B (Complement Component 8, Beta Polypeptide) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C8B include c8 deficiency, type ii and immunodeficiency due to a late component of complements deficiency. Among its related pathways are Complement and coagulation cascades and Amoebiasis. GO annotations related to this gene include protein complex binding. An important paralog of this gene is C6.	Constituent of the membrane attack complex (MAC) that plays a key role in the innate and adaptive immune response by forming pores in the plasma membrane of target cells	same
C7	C7 is a component of the complement system. It participates in the formation of Membrane Attack Complex (MAC). People with C7 deficiency are prone to bacterial infection. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	C7 (Complement Component 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C7 include c7 deficiency and immunodeficiency due to a late component of complements deficiency. Among its related pathways are Complement and coagulation cascades and Complement and coagulation cascades. An important paralog of this gene is C6.	Constituent of the membrane attack complex (MAC) that plays a key role in the innate and adaptive immune response by forming pores in the plasma membrane of target cells. C7 serves as a membrane anchor	same
C8orf30A	empty	HGH1 (HGH1 Homolog (S. Cerevisiae)) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C8orf22	empty	C8orf22 (Chromosome 8 Open Reading Frame 22) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C7orf47	empty	PPP1R35 (Protein Phosphatase 1, Regulatory Subunit 35) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include phosphatase binding and protein phosphatase inhibitor activity.	Inhibits PPP1CA phosphatase activity.	diff
C8orf31	empty	C8orf31 (Chromosome 8 Open Reading Frame 31) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C8orf34	empty	C8orf34 (Chromosome 8 Open Reading Frame 34) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include cAMP-dependent protein kinase regulator activity.	empty	same
C8orf38	This gene encodes a protein that localizes to mitochondria and contains a predicted phytoene synthase domain. The encoded protein plays an important role in the assembly of complex I (NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase) of the mitochondrial respiratory chain through regulation of subunit ND1 biogenesis. Mutations in this gene are associated with complex I enzymatic deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]	NDUFAF6 (NADH Dehydrogenase (Ubiquinone) Complex I, Assembly Factor 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with NDUFAF6 include leigh syndrome with leukodystrophy and leigh syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include transferase activity.	Involved in the assembly of mitochondrial NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase complex (complex I) at early stages. May play a role in the biogenesis of MT-ND1.	diff
C8orf39	empty	RBM12B-AS1 (RBM12B Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class.	empty	diff
C8orf33	empty	C8orf33 (Chromosome 8 Open Reading Frame 33) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C8G	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the lipocalin family. It is one of the three subunits that constitutes complement component 8 (C8), which is composed of a disulfide-linked C8 alpha-gamma heterodimer and a non-covalently associated C8 beta chain. C8 participates in the formation of the membrane attack complex (MAC) on bacterial cell membranes. While subunits alpha and beta play a role in complement-mediated bacterial killing, the gamma subunit is not required for the bactericidal activity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]	C8G (Complement Component 8, Gamma Polypeptide) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C8G include acute salpingitis and salpingo-oophoritis. Among its related pathways are Complement and coagulation cascades and Complement and coagulation cascades. GO annotations related to this gene include protein complex binding and complement binding.	C8 is a constituent of the membrane attack complex. C8 binds to the C5B-7 complex, forming the C5B-8 complex. C5-B8 binds C9 and acts as a catalyst in the polymerization of C9. The gamma subunit seems to be able to bind retinol	same
C8orf44	empty	C8orf44 (Chromosome 8 Open Reading Frame 44) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C8orf41	This gene encodes a regulator of the DNA damage response. The protein is a component of the Triple T complex (TTT) which also includes telomere length regulation protein and TELO2 interacting protein 1. The TTT complex is involved in cellular resistance to DNA damage stresses and may act as a regulator of phosphoinositide-3-kinase-related protein kinase (PIKK) abundance. [provided by RefSeq, May 2013]	TTI2 (TELO2 Interacting Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with TTI2 include mental retardation, autosomal recessive 39 and severe intellectual disability-short stature-behavioral troubles-facial dysmorphism syndrome.	Regulator of the DNA damage response (DDR). Part of the TTT complex that is required to stabilize protein levels of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-related protein kinase (PIKK) family proteins. The TTT complex is involved in the cellular resistance to DNA damage stresses, like ionizing radiation (IR), ultraviolet (UV) and mitomycin C (MMC). Together with the TTT complex and HSP90 may participate in the proper folding of newly synthesized PIKKs.	diff
C8orf37	This gene encodes a ubiquitously expressed protein of unknown function. It has high levels of mRNA expression in the brain, heart, and retina and the protein co-localizes with polyglutamylated tubulin at the base of the primary cilium in human retinal pigment epithelial cells. Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal recessive cone-rod dystrophy (arCRD) and retinitis pigmentosa (arRP). [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]	C8orf37 (Chromosome 8 Open Reading Frame 37) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C8orf37 include cone-rod dystrophy 16 and c8orf37-related retinitis pigmentosa.	empty	same
C8orf45	empty	MCMDC2 (Minichromosome Maintenance Domain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C8A	C8 is a component of the complement system and contains three polypeptides, alpha, beta and gamma. This gene encodes the alpha subunit of C8. C8 participates in the formation of the membrane attack complex (MAC). The MAC assembles on bacterial membranes to form a pore, permitting disruption of bacterial membrane organization. Mutations in this gene cause complement C8 alpha-gamma deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]	C8A (Complement Component 8, Alpha Polypeptide) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C8A include c8 deficiency, type i and immunodeficiency due to a late component of complements deficiency. Among its related pathways are Complement and coagulation cascades and Amoebiasis. An important paralog of this gene is C6.	Constituent of the membrane attack complex (MAC) that plays a key role in the innate and adaptive immune response by forming pores in the plasma membrane of target cells. C8A inserts into the target membrane, but does not form pores by itself.	same
C8orf47	empty	ERICH5 (Glutamate-Rich 5) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C8ORFK29	empty	TMEM249 (Transmembrane Protein 249) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C8orf48	empty	C8orf48 (Chromosome 8 Open Reading Frame 48) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C8orf58	empty	C8orf58 (Chromosome 8 Open Reading Frame 58) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000248235.	empty	same
C8orf56	empty	BAALC-AS2 (BAALC Antisense RNA 2) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class.	empty	diff
C8orf55	empty	THEM6 (Thioesterase Superfamily Member 6) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C8orf46	empty	C8orf46 (Chromosome 8 Open Reading Frame 46) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C8orf59	empty	C8orf59 (Chromosome 8 Open Reading Frame 59) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C8orf71	empty	LINC00588 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 588) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C8orf75	empty	LINC00589 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 589) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C8orf74	empty	C8orf74 (Chromosome 8 Open Reading Frame 74) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C8orf73	empty	MROH6 (Maestro Heat-Like Repeat Family Member 6) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is MROH7-TTC4.	empty	diff
C8orf42	empty	TDRP (Testis Development Related Protein) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C8orf40	empty	SMIM19 (Small Integral Membrane Protein 19) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C8orf76	empty	C8orf76 (Chromosome 8 Open Reading Frame 76) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ZHX1-C8orf76.	empty	same
C8orf77	empty	ZNF252P-AS1 (ZNF252P Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C8orf79	empty	KIAA1456 (KIAA1456) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include methyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ALKBH8.	May modifie wobble uridines in specific arginine and glutamic acid tRNAs. Acts as a tumor suppressor by promoting the expression of LIN9.	diff
C8orf51	empty	RHPN1-AS1 (RHPN1 Antisense RNA 1 (Head To Head)) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C8orf80	empty	NUGGC (Nuclear GTPase, Germinal Center Associated) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding and GTPase activity.	Plays a role as replication-related GTPase protein in germinal center B-cell.	diff
C8orf83	empty	TRIQK (Triple QxxK/R Motif Containing) is a Protein Coding gene.	May play a role in cell growth and maintenance of cell morphology.	diff
C8orf85	empty	AARD (Alanine And Arginine Rich Domain Containing Protein) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C8orf86	empty	C8orf86 (Chromosome 8 Open Reading Frame 86) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C9orf100	empty	ARHGEF39 (Rho Guanine Nucleotide Exchange Factor (GEF) 39) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and Rho guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity.	Promotes cell proliferation.	diff
C8orf84	empty	SBSPON (Somatomedin B And Thrombospondin, Type 1 Domain Containing) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include scavenger receptor activity and polysaccharide binding.	empty	diff
C9orf109	empty	FAM225A (Family With Sequence Similarity 225, Member A (Non-Protein Coding)) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C9orf106	empty	C9orf106 (Chromosome 9 Open Reading Frame 106) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C9orf103	empty	IDNK (IdnK, Gluconokinase Homolog (E. Coli)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include gluconokinase activity.	empty	diff
C9orf110	empty	FAM225B (Family With Sequence Similarity 225, Member B (Non-Protein Coding)) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C9orf116	empty	C9orf116 (Chromosome 9 Open Reading Frame 116) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C9orf114	empty	C9orf114 (Chromosome 9 Open Reading Frame 114) is a Protein Coding gene.	Required both for chromosome alignment and for association of the centrosomes with the poles of the bipolar spindle during metaphase.	same
C9orf11	empty	EQTN (Equatorin, Sperm Acrosome Associated) is a Protein Coding gene.	Acrosomal membrane-anchored protein involved in the process of fertilization and in acrosome biogenesis.	diff
C9orf119	empty	SWI5 (SWI5 Recombination Repair Homolog (Yeast)) is a Protein Coding gene.	Component of the SWI5-SFR1 complex, a complex required for double-strand break repair via homologous recombination.	diff
C9orf122	empty	FAM201A (Family With Sequence Similarity 201, Member A) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C8orf4	This gene encodes a small, monomeric, predominantly unstructured protein that functions as a positive regulator of the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway. This protein interacts with a repressor of beta-catenin mediated transcription at nuclear speckles. It is thought to competitively block interactions of the repressor with beta-catenin, resulting in up-regulation of beta-catenin target genes. The encoded protein may also play a role in the NF-kappaB and ERK1/2 signaling pathways. Expression of this gene may play a role in the proliferation of several types of cancer including thyroid cancer, breast cancer and hematological malignancies. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]	C8orf4 (Chromosome 8 Open Reading Frame 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C8orf4 include thyroid cancer and breast cancer.	May decrease apoptosis.	same
C9orf117	empty	C9orf117 (Chromosome 9 Open Reading Frame 117) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C9orf102	This gene encodes a member of the Snf2 family of helicase-like proteins. The encoded protein may play a role in DNA repair and mitochondrial function. Mutations in this gene have been associated with bone marrow failure syndrome 2. Alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2014]	ERCC6L2 (Excision Repair Cross-Complementation Group 6-Like 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ERCC6L2 include bone marrow failure syndrome 2 and pancytopenia-developmental delay syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include ATP-dependent helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ERCC6.	May be involved in early DNA damage response.	diff
C9orf130	empty	LINC00476 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 476) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the processed_transcript RNA class. Diseases associated with LINC00476 include nasopharyngeal carcinoma.	empty	diff
C9orf131	empty	C9orf131 (Chromosome 9 Open Reading Frame 131) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C9orf123	empty	TMEM261 (Transmembrane Protein 261) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C9orf129	empty	C9orf129 (Chromosome 9 Open Reading Frame 129) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C9orf125	empty	TMEM246 (Transmembrane Protein 246) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C9orf139	empty	C9orf139 (Chromosome 9 Open Reading Frame 139) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C9orf135	empty	C9orf135 (Chromosome 9 Open Reading Frame 135) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C9orf142	empty	C9orf142 (Chromosome 9 Open Reading Frame 142) is a Protein Coding gene.	Involved in DNA non-homologous end joining (NHEJ). May act as a scaffold required to stabilize the Ku heterodimer, composed of XRCC5/Ku80 and XRCC6/Ku70, at DNA ends and thus promote assembly and/or stability of the NHEJ machinery at double-strand break (DSB) sites.	same
C9orf144	empty	FAM205BP (Family With Sequence Similarity 205, Member B, Pseudogene) is a Pseudogene.	empty	diff
C9orf152	empty	C9orf152 (Chromosome 9 Open Reading Frame 152) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C9orf144B	empty	FAM205A (Family With Sequence Similarity 205, Member A) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C9orf140	empty	SAPCD2 (Suppressor APC Domain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C9orf150	empty	LURAP1L (Leucine Rich Adaptor Protein 1-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is LURAP1.	empty	diff
C9orf153	empty	C9orf153 (Chromosome 9 Open Reading Frame 153) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C9orf163	empty	C9orf163 (Chromosome 9 Open Reading Frame 163) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C9orf128	empty	FAM221B (Family With Sequence Similarity 221, Member B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with FAM221B include cartilage-hair hypoplasia.	empty	diff
C9orf169	empty	CYSRT1 (Cysteine-Rich Tail Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C9orf170	empty	C9orf170 (Chromosome 9 Open Reading Frame 170) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C9orf16	empty	C9orf16 (Chromosome 9 Open Reading Frame 16) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C9orf167	empty	TOR4A (Torsin Family 4, Member A) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleoside-triphosphatase activity. An important paralog of this gene is TOR2A.	empty	diff
C9orf172	empty	C9orf172 (Chromosome 9 Open Reading Frame 172) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C9orf172 include malaria.	empty	same
C9orf156	empty	C9orf156 (Chromosome 9 Open Reading Frame 156) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrolase activity.	Hydrolyzes acyl-CoA thioesters (in vitro). Has a preference for substrates with medium chain length (C10-C14). Inactive towards substrates with C18 or C20 aliphatic chains. Its physiological substrate is not known.	same
C9orf171	empty	C9orf171 (Chromosome 9 Open Reading Frame 171) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C9orf173	empty	C9orf173 (Chromosome 9 Open Reading Frame 173) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C9orf30	empty	MSANTD3 (Myb/SANT-Like DNA-Binding Domain Containing 3) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding.	empty	diff
C9orf25	The protein encoded by this gene has homologs that have been identified in mouse, macaque, etc organisms. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]	FAM219A (Family With Sequence Similarity 219, Member A) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is FAM219B.	empty	diff
C9orf37	This transcribed locus is thought to be non-coding. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2014]	ARRDC1-AS1 (ARRDC1 Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class.	empty	diff
C9orf27	empty	LINC00474 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 474) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C9orf24	This gene encodes a nuclear- or perinuclear-localized protein with no predicted domains or similarity to other known proteins. Expression of this gene is induced during the differentiation of bronchial epithelial cells, and the encoded protein may play a role in ciliogenesis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]	C9orf24 (Chromosome 9 Open Reading Frame 24) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include alpha-tubulin binding.	May play a role in spermatogenesis (By similarity). May be involved in differentiation or function of ciliated cells.	same
C9orf23	This gene encodes a protein that appears to belong to a family of evolutionarily related proteins (DUF78), that may share one or more domains in common. Members of this family are small archaebacterial proteins with no known function. Alternative splicing has been observed at this locus and two variants, both encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	RPP25L (Ribonuclease P/MRP 25kDa Subunit-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are RNA transport and Ribosome biogenesis in eukaryotes. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleic acid binding. An important paralog of this gene is RPP25.	May be a component of ribonuclease P or MRP	diff
C9orf21	empty	AAED1 (AhpC/TSA Antioxidant Enzyme Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C9orf40	empty	C9orf40 (Chromosome 9 Open Reading Frame 40) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C9orf3	This gene encodes a member of the M1 zinc aminopeptidase family. The encoded protein is a zinc-dependent metallopeptidase that catalyzes the removal of an amino acid from the amino terminus of a protein or peptide. This protein may play a role in the generation of angiotensin IV. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]	C9orf3 (Chromosome 9 Open Reading Frame 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C9orf3 include newborn respiratory distress syndrome and right bundle branch block. GO annotations related to this gene include metallopeptidase activity and aminopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is LTA4H.	Aminopeptidases catalyze the hydrolysis of amino acid residues from the N-terminus of peptide or protein substrates. Able to cleave angiotensin III to generate angiotensin IV, a bioactive peptide of the renin-angiotensin pathway. Not able to cleave angiotensin I and angiotensin II. May play a role in the proteolytic processing of bioactive peptides in tissues such as testis and heart.	same
C9orf41	empty	C9orf41 (Chromosome 9 Open Reading Frame 41) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C9orf44	empty	LINC00475 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 475) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
C9orf43	empty	C9orf43 (Chromosome 9 Open Reading Frame 43) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C9orf45	empty	MIR600HG (MIR600 Host Gene) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the miRNA class.	empty	diff
C9orf4	empty	empty	empty	same
C9orf46	empty	PLGRKT (Plasminogen Receptor, C-Terminal Lysine Transmembrane Protein) is a Protein Coding gene.	Receptor for plasminogen. Regulates urokinase plasminogen activator-dependent and stimulates tissue-type plasminogen activator-dependent cell surface plasminogen activation. Proposed to be part of a local catecholaminergic cell plasminogen activation system that regulates neuroendocrine prohormone processing. Involved in regulation of inflammatory response; regulates monocyte chemotactic migration and matrix metallproteinase activation, such as of MMP2 and MMP9.	diff
C9orf47	empty	C9orf47 (Chromosome 9 Open Reading Frame 47) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C9orf53	empty	CDKN2A-AS1 (CDKN2A Antisense RNA 1 (Head To Head)) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class.	empty	diff
C9orf70	empty	GLIS3-AS1 (GLIS3 Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class.	empty	diff
C9orf57	empty	C9orf57 (Chromosome 9 Open Reading Frame 57) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C9orf69	empty	C9orf69 (Chromosome 9 Open Reading Frame 69) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding.	Plays a role in cell proliferation by promoting progression into S phase. Promotes human herpesvirus 1 (HHV-1) proliferation.	same
C9orf64	empty	C9orf64 (Chromosome 9 Open Reading Frame 64) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C9orf66	empty	C9orf66 (Chromosome 9 Open Reading Frame 66) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C9orf50	empty	C9orf50 (Chromosome 9 Open Reading Frame 50) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C9orf68	empty	SPATA6L (Spermatogenesis Associated 6-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is SPATA6.	empty	diff
C9orf72	The protein encoded by this gene plays an important role in the regulation of endosomal trafficking, and has been shown to interact with Rab proteins that are involved in autophagy and endocytic transport. Expansion of a hexanucleotide repeat in non-coding sequence between alternate 5' exons in transcripts from this gene is associated with 9p-linked ALS (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis) and FTD (frontotemporal dementia) (PMID: 21944778, 21944779). Studies suggest that hexanucleotide expansions could result in the selective stabilization of repeat-containing pre-mRNA, and the accumulation of insoluble dipeptide repeat protein aggregates that could be pathogenic in FTD-ALS patients (PMID: 23393093). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2015]	C9orf72 (Chromosome 9 Open Reading Frame 72) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C9orf72 include amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and/or frontotemporal dementia and c9orf72-related amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal dementia.	May play a role in endosomal trafficking and autophagy.	same
C9orf5	empty	TMEM245 (Transmembrane Protein 245) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C9orf71	empty	TMEM252 (Transmembrane Protein 252) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C9orf78	empty	C9orf78 (Chromosome 9 Open Reading Frame 78) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C9orf78 include hepatocellular carcinoma.	empty	same
C9orf6	empty	FAM206A (Family With Sequence Similarity 206, Member A) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C9orf7	empty	CACFD1 (Calcium Channel Flower Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium channel activity.	empty	diff
C9orf82	empty	CAAP1 (Caspase Activity And Apoptosis Inhibitor 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	Anti-apoptotic protein that modulates a caspase-10 dependent mitochondrial caspase-3/9 feedback amplification loop.	diff
C9orf80	SOSSC is a subunit of single-stranded DNA (ssDNA)-binding complexes involved in the maintenance of genome stability (Huang et al., 2009) [PubMed 19683501].[supplied by OMIM, Feb 2010]	INIP (INTS3 And NABP Interacting Protein) is a Protein Coding gene.	Component of the SOSS complex, a multiprotein complex that functions downstream of the MRN complex to promote DNA repair and G2/M checkpoint. The SOSS complex associates with single-stranded DNA at DNA lesions and influences diverse endpoints in the cellular DNA damage response including cell-cycle checkpoint activation, recombinational repair and maintenance of genomic stability. Required for efficient homologous recombination-dependent repair of double-strand breaks (DSBs) and ATM-dependent signaling pathways.	diff
C9orf86	This gene encodes a member of the Ras superfamily of small GTPases. The encoded protein binds to both GTP and GDP and may play a role in cell growth and survival. Overexpression of this gene may play a role in breast cancer tumorigenesis, and pseudogenes of this gene are located on the long arm of chromosome 2 and the short arm of chromosome 18. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	RABL6 (RAB, Member RAS Oncogene Family-Like 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with RABL6 include breast cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding.	May enhance cellular proliferation. May reduce growth inhibitory activity of CDKN2A.	diff
C9orf96	empty	STKLD1 (Serine/Threonine Kinase-Like Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C9orf95	Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) is essential for life in all organisms, both as a coenzyme for oxidoreductases and as a source of ADP-ribosyl groups used in various reactions. Nicotinic acid and nicotinamide, collectively known as niacin, are the vitamin precursors of NAD+. Nicotinamide riboside kinases, such as NRK1, function to synthesize NAD+ through nicotinamide mononucleotide using nicotinamide riboside as the precursor (Bieganowski and Brenner, 2004 [PubMed 15137942]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	NMRK1 (Nicotinamide Riboside Kinase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Nicotinate and nicotinamide metabolism and Nicotinate and nicotinamide metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include uridine kinase activity and ribosylnicotinamide kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is NMRK2.	Catalyzes the phosphorylation of nicotinamide riboside (NR) and nicotinic acid riboside (NaR) to form nicotinamide mononucleotide (NMN) and nicotinic acid mononucleotide (NaMN). The enzyme also phosphorylates the antitumor drugs tiazofurin and 3-deazaguanosine.	diff
C9orf79	empty	SPATA31E1 (SPATA31 Subfamily E, Member 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is SPATA31A1.	May play a role in spermatogenesis.	diff
C9orf93	empty	CCDC171 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 171) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
C9orf98	empty	AK8 (Adenylate Kinase 8) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are purine nucleotide salvage and purine nucleotide salvage. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleoside diphosphate kinase activity and cytidylate kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AK3.	Nucleoside monophosphate (NMP) kinase that catalyzes the reversible transfer of the terminal phosphate group between nucleoside triphosphates and monophosphates. Has highest activity toward AMP, and weaker activity toward dAMP, CMP and dCMP. Also displays broad nucleoside diphosphate kinase activity.	diff
C9orf9	empty	C9orf9 (Chromosome 9 Open Reading Frame 9) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C9orf9 include transitional cell carcinoma.	empty	same
CA11	Carbonic anhydrases (CAs) are a large family of zinc metalloenzymes that catalyze the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide. They participate in a variety of biological processes, including respiration, calcification, acid-base balance, bone resorption, and the formation of aqueous humor, cerebrospinal fluid, saliva, and gastric acid. They show extensive diversity in tissue distribution and in their subcellular localization. CA XI is likely a secreted protein, however, radical changes at active site residues completely conserved in CA isozymes with catalytic activity, make it unlikely that it has carbonic anhydrase activity. It shares properties in common with two other acatalytic CA isoforms, CA VIII and CA X. CA XI is most abundantly expressed in brain, and may play a general role in the central nervous system. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CA11 (Carbonic Anhydrase XI) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include carbonate dehydratase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CA10.	Does not have a catalytic activity	same
CA10	This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the carbonic anhydrase family of zinc metalloenzymes, which catalyze the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide in various biological processes. The protein encoded by this gene is an acatalytic member of the alpha-carbonic anhydrase subgroup, and it is thought to play a role in the central nervous system, especially in brain development. Multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CA10 (Carbonic Anhydrase X) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CA10 include herpangina and retrograde amnesia. An important paralog of this gene is CA11.	Does not have a catalytic activity	same
C9orf85	empty	C9orf85 (Chromosome 9 Open Reading Frame 85) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
C9orf84	empty	C9orf84 (Chromosome 9 Open Reading Frame 84) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CA12	Carbonic anhydrases (CAs) are a large family of zinc metalloenzymes that catalyze the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide. They participate in a variety of biological processes, including respiration, calcification, acid-base balance, bone resorption, and the formation of aqueous humor, cerebrospinal fluid, saliva, and gastric acid. This gene product is a type I membrane protein that is highly expressed in normal tissues, such as kidney, colon and pancreas, and has been found to be overexpressed in 10% of clear cell renal carcinomas. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2014]	CA12 (Carbonic Anhydrase XII) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CA12 include hyperchlorhidrosis, isolated and hypoxia. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Glucose / Energy Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include carbonate dehydratase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CA14.	Reversible hydration of carbon dioxide	same
C9	This gene encodes the final component of the complement system. It participates in the formation of the Membrane Attack Complex (MAC). The MAC assembles on bacterial membranes to form a pore, permitting disruption of bacterial membrane organization. Mutations in this gene cause component C9 deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]	C9 (Complement Component 9) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with C9 include c9 deficiency and macular degeneration, age-related, 15, suscepbitility to. Among its related pathways are Complement and coagulation cascades and Complement and coagulation cascades. An important paralog of this gene is C6.	Constituent of the membrane attack complex (MAC) that plays a key role in the innate and adaptive immune response by forming pores in the plasma membrane of target cells. C9 is the pore-forming subunit of the MAC	same
C9orf89	empty	C9orf89 (Chromosome 9 Open Reading Frame 89) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include CARD domain binding.	Plays a role in inhibiting the effects of BCL10-induced activation of NF-kappa-B. May inhibit the phosphorylation of BCL10 in a CARD-dependent manner.	same
CA13	Carbonic anhydrases (CAs) are a family of zinc metalloenzymes. For background information on the CA family, see MIM 114800.[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CA13 (Carbonic Anhydrase XIII) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CA13 include suppurative otitis media. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Nitrogen metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include carbonate dehydratase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CA14.	Reversible hydration of carbon dioxide	same
CA14	Carbonic anhydrases (CAs) are a large family of zinc metalloenzymes that catalyze the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide. They participate in a variety of biological processes, including respiration, calcification, acid-base balance, bone resorption, and the formation of aqueous humor, cerebrospinal fluid, saliva, and gastric acid. They show extensive diversity in tissue distribution and in their subcellular localization. CA XIV is predicted to be a type I membrane protein and shares highest sequence similarity with the other transmembrane CA isoform, CA XII; however, they have different patterns of tissue-specific expression and thus may play different physiologic roles. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CA14 (Carbonic Anhydrase XIV) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CA14 include proximal renal tubular acidosis. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Nitrogen metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include carbonate dehydratase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CA7.	Reversible hydration of carbon dioxide	same
CA4	Carbonic anhydrases (CAs) are a large family of zinc metalloenzymes that catalyze the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide. They participate in a variety of biological processes, including respiration, calcification, acid-base balance, bone resorption, and the formation of aqueous humor, cerebrospinal fluid, saliva, and gastric acid. They show extensive diversity in tissue distribution and in their subcellular localization. This gene encodes a glycosylphosphatidyl-inositol-anchored membrane isozyme expressed on the luminal surfaces of pulmonary (and certain other) capillaries and proximal renal tubules. Its exact function is not known; however, it may have a role in inherited renal abnormalities of bicarbonate transport. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CA4 (Carbonic Anhydrase IV) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CA4 include retinitis pigmentosa 17 and ca4-related retinitis pigmentosa. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Proximal tubule bicarbonate reclamation. GO annotations related to this gene include carbonate dehydratase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CA14.	Reversible hydration of carbon dioxide. May stimulate the sodium/bicarbonate transporter activity of SLC4A4 that acts in pH homeostasis. It is essential for acid overload removal from the retina and retina epithelium, and acid release in the choriocapillaris in the choroid.	same
CA5BP	empty	CA5BP1 (Carbonic Anhydrase VB Pseudogene 1) is a Pseudogene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Nitrogen metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include carbonate dehydratase activity.	empty	diff
CA5A	Carbonic anhydrases (CAs) are a large family of zinc metalloenzymes that catalyze the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide. They participate in a variety of biological processes, including respiration, calcification, acid-base balance, bone resorption, and the formation of aqueous humor, cerebrospinal fluid, saliva, and gastric acid. They show extensive diversity in tissue distribution and in their subcellular localization. CA VA is localized in the mitochondria and expressed primarily in the liver. It may play an important role in ureagenesis and gluconeogenesis. CA5A gene maps to chromosome 16q24.3 and an unprocessed pseudogene has been assigned to 16p12-p11.2. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CA5A (Carbonic Anhydrase VA, Mitochondrial) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CA5A include hyperammonemia due to carbonic anhydrase va deficiency and hyperammonemic encephalopathy due to carbonic anhydrase va deficiency. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Nitrogen metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include carbonate dehydratase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CA14.	Reversible hydration of carbon dioxide. Low activity	same
C9orf91	empty	C9orf91 (Chromosome 9 Open Reading Frame 91) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CA5B	Carbonic anhydrases (CAs) are a large family of zinc metalloenzymes that catalyze the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide. They participate in a variety of biological processes, including respiration, calcification, acid-base balance, bone resorption, and the formation of aqueous humor, cerebrospinal fluid, saliva, and gastric acid. They show extensive diversity in tissue distribution and in their subcellular localization. CA VB is localized in the mitochondria and shows the highest sequence similarity to the other mitochondrial CA, CA VA. It has a wider tissue distribution than CA VA, which is restricted to the liver. The differences in tissue distribution suggest that the two mitochondrial carbonic anhydrases evolved to assume different physiologic roles. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CA5B (Carbonic Anhydrase VB, Mitochondrial) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Nitrogen metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include carbonate dehydratase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CA14.	Reversible hydration of carbon dioxide	same
CA6	The protein encoded by this gene is one of several isozymes of carbonic anhydrase. This protein is found only in salivary glands and saliva and protein may play a role in the reversible hydratation of carbon dioxide though its function in saliva is unknown. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CA6 (Carbonic Anhydrase VI) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CA6 include hand, foot and mouth disease and multilocular clear cell renal cell carcinoma. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Nitrogen metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include carbonate dehydratase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CA14.	Reversible hydration of carbon dioxide. Its role in saliva is unknown	same
CA3	Carbonic anhydrase III (CAIII) is a member of a multigene family (at least six separate genes are known) that encodes carbonic anhydrase isozymes. These carbonic anhydrases are a class of metalloenzymes that catalyze the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide and are differentially expressed in a number of cell types. The expression of the CA3 gene is strictly tissue specific and present at high levels in skeletal muscle and much lower levels in cardiac and smooth muscle. A proportion of carriers of Duchenne muscle dystrophy have a higher CA3 level than normal. The gene spans 10.3 kb and contains seven exons and six introns. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]	CA3 (Carbonic Anhydrase III) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CA3 include hordeolum and laryngeal disease. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Nitrogen metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include carbonate dehydratase activity and nickel cation binding. An important paralog of this gene is CA14.	Reversible hydration of carbon dioxide	same
CA8	The protein encoded by this gene was initially named CA-related protein because of sequence similarity to other known carbonic anhydrase genes. However, the gene product lacks carbonic anhydrase activity (i.e., the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide). The gene product continues to carry a carbonic anhydrase designation based on clear sequence identity to other members of the carbonic anhydrase gene family. The absence of CA8 gene transcription in the cerebellum of the lurcher mutant in mice with a neurologic defect suggests an important role for this acatalytic form. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CA8 (Carbonic Anhydrase VIII) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CA8 include cerebellar ataxia and mental retardation with or without quadrupedal locomotion 3 and cerebellar hypoplasia and mental retardation with or without quadrupedal locomotion 1. Among its related pathways are Nitrogen metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include carbonate dehydratase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CA14.	Does not have a carbonic anhydrase catalytic activity	same
CA1	Carbonic anhydrases (CAs) are a large family of zinc metalloenzymes that catalyze the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide. They participate in a variety of biological processes, including respiration, calcification, acid-base balance, bone resorption, and the formation of aqueous humor, cerebrospinal fluid, saliva and gastric acid. They show extensive diversity in tissue distribution and in their subcellular localization. This CA1 gene is closely linked to the CA2 and CA3 genes on chromosome 8. It encodes a cytosolic protein that is found at the highest level in erythrocytes. Allelic variants of this gene have been described in some populations. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2014]	CA1 (Carbonic Anhydrase I) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CA1 include subacute thyroiditis and amnestic disorder. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and C-MYB transcription factor network. GO annotations related to this gene include carbonate dehydratase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CA14.	Reversible hydration of carbon dioxide. Can hydrates cyanamide to urea.	same
CAB39	empty	CAB39 (Calcium Binding Protein 39) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Insulin receptor signalling cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and protein kinase activator activity. An important paralog of this gene is CAB39L.	Component of a complex that binds and activates STK11/LKB1. In the complex, required to stabilize the interaction between CAB39/MO25 (CAB39/MO25alpha or CAB39L/MO25beta) and STK11/LKB1.	same
CABC1	This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein similar to yeast ABC1, which functions in an electron-transferring membrane protein complex in the respiratory chain. It is not related to the family of ABC transporter proteins. Expression of this gene is induced by the tumor suppressor p53 and in response to DNA damage, and inhibiting its expression partially suppresses p53-induced apoptosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found; however, their full-length nature has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ADCK3 (AarF Domain Containing Kinase 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ADCK3 include coenzyme q10 deficiency, primary, 4 and cabc1-related coenzyme q10 deficiency. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ADCK4.	Atypical kinase involved in the biosynthesis of coenzyme Q, also named ubiquinone, an essential lipid-soluble electron transporter for aerobic cellular respiration (PubMed:25498144). Its substrate specificity is unclear: either acts as protein kinase that phosphorylates other proteins in the CoQ complex to stabilize their interactions or acts as a small molecule kinase that phosphorylates a prenyl lipid in the ubiquinone biosynthesis pathway (PubMed:25498144). Shows an unusual selectivity for binding ADP over ATP (PubMed:25498144).	diff
CA7	Carbonic anhydrases are a large family of zinc metalloenzymes that catalyze the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide. They participate in a variety of biological processes, including respiration, calcification, acid-base balance, bone resorption, and the formation of aqueous humor, cerebrospinal fluid, saliva, and gastric acid. They show extensive diversity in tissue distribution and in their subcellular localization. The cytosolic protein encoded by this gene is predominantly expressed in the salivary glands. Alternative splicing in the coding region results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CA7 (Carbonic Anhydrase VII) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Nitrogen metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include carbonate dehydratase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CA14.	Reversible hydration of carbon dioxide	same
CABLES2	empty	CABLES2 (Cdk5 And Abl Enzyme Substrate 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Hemostasis and Factors involved in megakaryocyte development and platelet production. GO annotations related to this gene include cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase regulator activity. An important paralog of this gene is CABLES1.	Unknown. Probably involved in G1-S cell cycle transition	same
CABP4	This gene encodes a member of the CABP family of calcium binding protein characterized by four EF-hand motifs. Mutations in this gene are associated with congenital stationary night blindness type 2B. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]	CABP4 (Calcium Binding Protein 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CABP4 include night blindness, congenital stationary , 2b, autosomal recessive and retinal disease. Among its related pathways are Visual Cycle in Retinal Rods. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CABP2.	Involved in normal synaptic function through regulation of Ca(2+) influx and neurotransmitter release in photoreceptor synaptic terminals and in auditory transmission. Modulator of CACNA1D and CACNA1F, suppressing the calcium-dependent inactivation and shifting the activation range to more hyperpolarized voltages (By similarity).	same
CABP7	empty	CABP7 (Calcium Binding Protein 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Visual Cycle in Retinal Rods. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CALN1.	Negatively regulates Golgi-to-plasma membrane trafficking by interacting with PI4KB and inhibiting its activity.	same
CABLES1	This gene encodes a protein involved in regulation of the cell cycle through interactions with several cyclin-dependent kinases. One study (PMID: 16177568) reported aberrant splicing of transcripts from this gene which results in removal of the cyclin binding domain only in human cancer cells, and reduction in gene expression was shown in colorectal cancers (PMID: 17982127).Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]	CABLES1 (Cdk5 And Abl Enzyme Substrate 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Hemostasis and Guidance Cues and Growth Cone Motility. GO annotations related to this gene include cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase regulator activity. An important paralog of this gene is CABLES2.	Cyclin-dependent kinase binding protein. Enhances cyclin-dependent kinase tyrosine phosphorylation by nonreceptor tyrosine kinases, such as that of CDK5 by activated ABL1, which leads to increased CDK5 activity and is critical for neuronal development, and that of CDK2 by WEE1, which leads to decreased CDK2 activity and growth inhibition. Positively affects neuronal outgrowth. Plays a role as a regulator for p53/p73-induced cell death (By similarity).	same
CABYR	To reach fertilization competence, spermatozoa undergo a series of morphological and molecular maturational processes, termed capacitation, involving protein tyrosine phosphorylation and increased intracellular calcium. The protein encoded by this gene localizes to the principal piece of the sperm flagellum in association with the fibrous sheath and exhibits calcium-binding when phosphorylated during capacitation. A pseudogene on chromosome 3 has been identified for this gene. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct protein isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]	CABYR (Calcium Binding Tyrosine-(Y)-Phosphorylation Regulated) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and protein kinase binding.	May function as a regulator of both motility- and head-associated functions such as capacitation and the acrosome reaction. Isoform 1 binds calcium in vitro. Isoform 2 and isoform 6 probably bind calcium. Isoform 3 and isoform 5 do not bind calcium in vitro. Isoform 4 probably does not bind calcium	same
CABP2	This gene belongs to a subfamily of calcium binding proteins that share similarity to calmodulin. Like calmodulin, these family members can likely stimulate calmodulin-dependent kinase II and the protein phosphatase calcineurin. Calcium binding proteins are an important component of calcium mediated cellular signal transduction.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]	CABP2 (Calcium Binding Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CABP2 include deafness, autosomal recessive 93 and amebiasis. Among its related pathways are Visual Cycle in Retinal Rods. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is TNNC2.	empty	same
CACHD1	empty	CACHD1 (Cache Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	May regulate voltage-dependent calcium channels.	same
CA9	Carbonic anhydrases (CAs) are a large family of zinc metalloenzymes that catalyze the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide. They participate in a variety of biological processes, including respiration, calcification, acid-base balance, bone resorption, and the formation of aqueous humor, cerebrospinal fluid, saliva, and gastric acid. They show extensive diversity in tissue distribution and in their subcellular localization. CA IX is a transmembrane protein and is one of only two tumor-associated carbonic anhydrase isoenzymes known. It is expressed in all clear-cell renal cell carcinoma, but is not detected in normal kidney or most other normal tissues. It may be involved in cell proliferation and transformation. This gene was mapped to 17q21.2 by fluorescence in situ hybridization, however, radiation hybrid mapping localized it to 9p13-p12. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2014]	CA9 (Carbonic Anhydrase IX) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CA9 include clear cell renal cell carcinoma and oxyphilic adenoma. Among its related pathways are Angiogenesis (CST) and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include carbonate dehydratase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CA14.	Reversible hydration of carbon dioxide. Participates in pH regulation. May be involved in the control of cell proliferation and transformation. Appears to be a novel specific biomarker for a cervical neoplasia.	same
CACNA1A	Voltage-dependent calcium channels mediate the entry of calcium ions into excitable cells, and are also involved in a variety of calcium-dependent processes, including muscle contraction, hormone or neurotransmitter release, and gene expression. Calcium channels are multisubunit complexes composed of alpha-1, beta, alpha-2/delta, and gamma subunits. The channel activity is directed by the pore-forming alpha-1 subunit, whereas, the others act as auxiliary subunits regulating this activity. The distinctive properties of the calcium channel types are related primarily to the expression of a variety of alpha-1 isoforms, alpha-1A, B, C, D, E, and S. This gene encodes the alpha-1A subunit, which is predominantly expressed in neuronal tissue. Mutations in this gene are associated with 2 neurologic disorders, familial hemiplegic migraine and episodic ataxia 2. This gene also exhibits polymorphic variation due to (CAG)n-repeats. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. In one set of transcript variants, the (CAG)n-repeats occur in the 3' UTR, and are not associated with any disease. But in another set of variants, an insertion extends the coding region to include the (CAG)n-repeats which encode a polyglutamine tract. Expansion of the (CAG)n-repeats from the normal 4-16 to 21-28 in the coding region is associated with spinocerebellar ataxia 6. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]	CACNA1A (Calcium Channel, Voltage-Dependent, P/Q Type, Alpha 1A Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CACNA1A include migraine, familial hemiplegic, 1 and episodic ataxia, type 2. Among its related pathways are MAPK signaling pathway and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include voltage-gated calcium channel activity and high voltage-gated calcium channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is NALCN.	Voltage-sensitive calcium channels (VSCC) mediate the entry of calcium ions into excitable cells and are also involved in a variety of calcium-dependent processes, including muscle contraction, hormone or neurotransmitter release, gene expression, cell motility, cell division and cell death. The isoform alpha-1A gives rise to P and/or Q-type calcium currents. P/Q-type calcium channels belong to the high-voltage activated (HVA) group and are blocked by the funnel toxin (Ftx) and by the omega-agatoxin-IVA (omega-Aga-IVA). They are however insensitive to dihydropyridines (DHP), and omega-conotoxin-GVIA (omega-CTx-GVIA)	same
CACNA1E	Voltage-dependent calcium channels are multisubunit complexes consisting of alpha-1, alpha-2, beta, and delta subunits in a 1:1:1:1 ratio. These channels mediate the entry of calcium ions into excitable cells, and are also involved in a variety of calcium-dependent processes, including muscle contraction, hormone or neurotransmitter release, gene expression, cell motility, cell division and cell death. This gene encodes the alpha-1E subunit of the R-type calcium channels, which belong to the 'high-voltage activated' group that maybe involved in the modulation of firing patterns of neurons important for information processing. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2011]	CACNA1E (Calcium Channel, Voltage-Dependent, R Type, Alpha 1E Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CACNA1E include migraine. Among its related pathways are MAPK signaling pathway and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and voltage-gated calcium channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CACNA1A.	Voltage-sensitive calcium channels (VSCC) mediate the entry of calcium ions into excitable cells and are also involved in a variety of calcium-dependent processes, including muscle contraction, hormone or neurotransmitter release, gene expression, cell motility, cell division and cell death. The isoform alpha-1E gives rise to R-type calcium currents. R-type calcium channels belong to the high-voltage activated (HVA) group and are blocked by nickel, and partially by omega-agatoxin-IIIA (omega-Aga-IIIA). They are however insensitive to dihydropyridines (DHP), omega-conotoxin-GVIA (omega-CTx-GVIA), and omega-agatoxin-IVA (omega-Aga-IVA). Calcium channels containing alpha-1E subunit could be involved in the modulation of firing patterns of neurons which is important for information processing	same
CACNA1D	Voltage-dependent calcium channels mediate the entry of calcium ions into excitable cells, and are also involved in a variety of calcium-dependent processes, including muscle contraction, hormone or neurotransmitter release, and gene expression. Calcium channels are multisubunit complexes composed of alpha-1, beta, alpha-2/delta, and gamma subunits. The channel activity is directed by the pore-forming alpha-1 subunit, whereas the others act as auxiliary subunits regulating this activity. The distinctive properties of the calcium channel types are related primarily to the expression of a variety of alpha-1 isoforms, namely alpha-1A, B, C, D, E, and S. This gene encodes the alpha-1D subunit. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]	CACNA1D (Calcium Channel, Voltage-Dependent, L Type, Alpha 1D Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CACNA1D include sinoatrial node dysfunction and deafness and primary aldosteronism, seizures, and neurologic abnormalities. Among its related pathways are MAPK signaling pathway and L1CAM interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include voltage-gated calcium channel activity and alpha-actinin binding. An important paralog of this gene is SCN1A.	Voltage-sensitive calcium channels (VSCC) mediate the entry of calcium ions into excitable cells and are also involved in a variety of calcium-dependent processes, including muscle contraction, hormone or neurotransmitter release, gene expression, cell motility, cell division and cell death. The isoform alpha-1D gives rise to L-type calcium currents. Long-lasting (L-type) calcium channels belong to the high-voltage activated (HVA) group. They are blocked by dihydropyridines (DHP), phenylalkylamines, benzothiazepines, and by omega-agatoxin-IIIA (omega-Aga-IIIA). They are however insensitive to omega-conotoxin-GVIA (omega-CTx-GVIA) and omega-agatoxin-IVA (omega-Aga-IVA).	same
CACNA1C	This gene encodes an alpha-1 subunit of a voltage-dependent calcium channel. Calcium channels mediate the influx of calcium ions into the cell upon membrane polarization. The alpha-1 subunit consists of 24 transmembrane segments and forms the pore through which ions pass into the cell. The calcium channel consists of a complex of alpha-1, alpha-2/delta, beta, and gamma subunits in a 1:1:1:1 ratio. There are multiple isoforms of each of these proteins, either encoded by different genes or the result of alternative splicing of transcripts. The protein encoded by this gene binds to and is inhibited by dihydropyridine. Alternative splicing results in many transcript variants encoding different proteins. Some of the predicted proteins may not produce functional ion channel subunits. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2012]	CACNA1C (Calcium Channel, Voltage-Dependent, L Type, Alpha 1C Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CACNA1C include timothy syndrome and brugada syndrome 3. Among its related pathways are MAPK signaling pathway and L1CAM interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include calmodulin binding and alpha-actinin binding. An important paralog of this gene is CACNA1D.	Voltage-sensitive calcium channels (VSCC) mediate the entry of calcium ions into excitable cells and are also involved in a variety of calcium-dependent processes, including muscle contraction, hormone or neurotransmitter release, gene expression, cell motility, cell division and cell death. The isoform alpha-1C gives rise to L-type calcium currents. Long-lasting (L-type) calcium channels belong to the high-voltage activated (HVA) group. They are blocked by dihydropyridines (DHP), phenylalkylamines, benzothiazepines, and by omega-agatoxin-IIIA (omega-Aga-IIIA). They are however insensitive to omega-conotoxin-GVIA (omega-CTx-GVIA) and omega-agatoxin-IVA (omega-Aga-IVA). Calcium channels containing the alpha-1C subunit play an important role in excitation-contraction coupling in the heart. The various isoforms display marked differences in the sensitivity to DHP compounds. Binding of calmodulin or CABP1 at the same regulatory sites results in an opposit effects on the channel function.	same
CAB39L	empty	CAB39L (Calcium Binding Protein 39-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Insulin receptor signalling cascade. An important paralog of this gene is CAB39.	Component of a complex that binds and activates STK11/LKB1. In the complex, required to stabilize the interaction between CAB39/MO25 (CAB39/MO25alpha or CAB39L/MO25beta) and STK11/LKB1 (By similarity).	same
CACNA1G	Voltage-sensitive calcium channels mediate the entry of calcium ions into excitable cells, and are also involved in a variety of calcium-dependent processes, including muscle contraction, hormone or neurotransmitter release, gene expression, cell motility, cell division, and cell death. This gene encodes a T-type, low-voltage activated calcium channel. The T-type channels generate currents that are both transient, owing to fast inactivation, and tiny, owing to small conductance. T-type channels are thought to be involved in pacemaker activity, low-threshold calcium spikes, neuronal oscillations and resonance, and rebound burst firing. Many alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]	CACNA1G (Calcium Channel, Voltage-Dependent, T Type, Alpha 1G Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CACNA1G include colorectal cancer. Among its related pathways are MAPK signaling pathway and L1CAM interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include scaffold protein binding and low voltage-gated calcium channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CACNA1D.	Voltage-sensitive calcium channels (VSCC) mediate the entry of calcium ions into excitable cells and are also involved in a variety of calcium-dependent processes, including muscle contraction, hormone or neurotransmitter release, gene expression, cell motility, cell division and cell death. The isoform alpha-1G gives rise to T-type calcium currents. T-type calcium channels belong to the "low-voltage activated (LVA)" group and are strongly blocked by mibefradil. A particularity of this type of channel is an opening at quite negative potentials and a voltage-dependent inactivation. T-type channels serve pacemaking functions in both central neurons and cardiac nodal cells and support calcium signaling in secretory cells and vascular smooth muscle. They may also be involved in the modulation of firing patterns of neurons which is important for information processing as well as in cell growth processes	same
CA2	The protein encoded by this gene is one of several isozymes of carbonic anhydrase, which catalyzes reversible hydration of carbon dioxide. Defects in this enzyme are associated with osteopetrosis and renal tubular acidosis. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2014]	CA2 (Carbonic Anhydrase II) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CA2 include osteopetrosis, autosomal recessive 3, with renal tubular acidosis and autoimmune retinopathy. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Glucose / Energy Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include carbonate dehydratase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CA14.	Essential for bone resorption and osteoclast differentiation (By similarity). Reversible hydration of carbon dioxide. Can hydrate cyanamide to urea. Involved in the regulation of fluid secretion into the anterior chamber of the eye. Contributes to intracellular pH regulation in the duodenal upper villous epithelium during proton-coupled peptide absorption. Stimulates the chloride-bicarbonate exchange activity of SLC26A6.	same
CABIN1	Calcineurin plays an important role in the T-cell receptor-mediated signal transduction pathway. The protein encoded by this gene binds specifically to the activated form of calcineurin and inhibits calcineurin-mediated signal transduction. The encoded protein is found in the nucleus and contains a leucine zipper domain as well as several PEST motifs, sequences which confer targeted degradation to those proteins which contain them. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding two different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]	CABIN1 (Calcineurin Binding Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CABIN1 include lymphocele and complication after organ transplantation. Among its related pathways are GPCR Pathway and Cell Cycle / Checkpoint Control. GO annotations related to this gene include protein phosphatase inhibitor activity.	May be required for replication-independent chromatin assembly. May serve as a negative regulator of T-cell receptor (TCR) signaling via inhibition of calcineurin. Inhibition of activated calcineurin is dependent on both PKC and calcium signals. Acts as a negative regulator of p53/TP53 by keeping p53 in an inactive state on chromatin at promoters of a subset of its target genes.	same
CABP1	Calcium binding proteins are an important component of calcium mediated cellular signal transduction. This gene encodes a protein that belongs to a subfamily of calcium binding proteins which share similarity to calmodulin. The protein encoded by this gene regulates the gating of voltage-gated calcium ion channels. This protein inhibits calcium-dependent inactivation and supports calcium-dependent facilitation of ion channels containing voltage-dependent L-type calcium channel subunit alpha-1C. This protein also regulates calcium-dependent activity of inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate receptors, P/Q-type voltage-gated calcium channels, and transient receptor potential channel TRPC5. This gene is predominantly expressed in retina and brain. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding disinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]	CABP1 (Calcium Binding Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Visual Cycle in Retinal Rods. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and enzyme inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CABP2.	Modulates calcium-dependent activity of inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate receptors (ITPRs). Inhibits agonist-induced intracellular calcium signaling. Enhances inactivation and does not support calcium-dependent facilitation of voltage-dependent P/Q-type calcium channels. Causes calcium-dependent facilitation and inhibits inactivation of L-type calcium channels by binding to the same sites as calmodulin in the C-terminal domain of CACNA1C, but resulting in an opposit effects on channel function. Suppresses the calcium-dependent inactivation of CACNA1D (By similarity). Inhibits TRPC5 channels. Prevents NMDA receptor-induced cellular degeneration (By similarity).	same
CACNA1F	This gene encodes a multipass transmembrane protein that functions as an alpha-1 subunit of the voltage-dependent calcium channel, which mediates the influx of calcium ions into the cell. The encoded protein forms a complex of alpha-1, alpha-2/delta, beta, and gamma subunits in a 1:1:1:1 ratio. Mutations in this gene can cause X-linked eye disorders, including congenital stationary night blindness type 2A, cone-rod dystropy, and Aland Island eye disease. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2013]	CACNA1F (Calcium Channel, Voltage-Dependent, L Type, Alpha 1F Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CACNA1F include aland island eye disease and night blindness, congenital stationary , 2a, x-linked. Among its related pathways are MAPK signaling pathway and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include voltage-gated calcium channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CACNA1D.	Voltage-sensitive calcium channels (VSCC) mediate the entry of calcium ions into excitable cells and are also involved in a variety of calcium-dependent processes, including muscle contraction, hormone or neurotransmitter release, gene expression, cell motility, cell division and cell death. The isoform alpha-1F gives rise to L-type calcium currents. Long-lasting (L-type) calcium channels belong to the high-voltage activated (HVA) group. They are blocked by dihydropyridines (DHP), phenylalkylamines, benzothiazepines, and by omega-agatoxin-IIIA (omega-Aga-IIIA). They are however insensitive to omega-conotoxin-GVIA (omega-CTx-GVIA) and omega-agatoxin-IVA (omega-Aga-IVA)	same
CACNA1H	This gene encodes a T-type member of the alpha-1 subunit family, a protein in the voltage-dependent calcium channel complex. Calcium channels mediate the influx of calcium ions into the cell upon membrane polarization and consist of a complex of alpha-1, alpha-2/delta, beta, and gamma subunits in a 1:1:1:1 ratio. The alpha-1 subunit has 24 transmembrane segments and forms the pore through which ions pass into the cell. There are multiple isoforms of each of the proteins in the complex, either encoded by different genes or the result of alternative splicing of transcripts. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized for the gene described here. Studies suggest certain mutations in this gene lead to childhood absence epilepsy (CAE). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CACNA1H (Calcium Channel, Voltage-Dependent, T Type, Alpha 1H Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CACNA1H include epilepsy, childhood absence 6 and childhood absence epilepsy. Among its related pathways are MAPK signaling pathway and L1CAM interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include scaffold protein binding and low voltage-gated calcium channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CACNA1D.	Voltage-sensitive calcium channels (VSCC) mediate the entry of calcium ions into excitable cells and are also involved in a variety of calcium-dependent processes, including muscle contraction, hormone or neurotransmitter release, gene expression, cell motility, cell division and cell death. The isoform alpha-1H gives rise to T-type calcium currents. T-type calcium channels belong to the "low-voltage activated (LVA)" group and are strongly blocked by nickel and mibefradil. A particularity of this type of channels is an opening at quite negative potentials, and a voltage-dependent inactivation. T-type channels serve pacemaking functions in both central neurons and cardiac nodal cells and support calcium signaling in secretory cells and vascular smooth muscle. They may also be involved in the modulation of firing patterns of neurons which is important for information processing as well as in cell growth processes	same
CACNA1I	This gene encodes the pore-forming alpha subunit of a voltage gated calcium channel. The encoded protein is a member of a subfamily of calcium channels referred to as is a low voltage-activated, T-type, calcium channel. The channel encoded by this protein is characterized by a slower activation and inactivation compared to other T-type calcium channels. This protein may be involved in calcium signaling in neurons. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]	CACNA1I (Calcium Channel, Voltage-Dependent, T Type, Alpha 1I Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are MAPK signaling pathway and L1CAM interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include voltage-gated calcium channel activity and low voltage-gated calcium channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CACNA1D.	Voltage-sensitive calcium channels (VSCC) mediate the entry of calcium ions into excitable cells and are also involved in a variety of calcium-dependent processes, including muscle contraction, hormone or neurotransmitter release, gene expression, cell motility, cell division and cell death. Isoform alpha-1I gives rise to T-type calcium currents. T-type calcium channels belong to the "low-voltage activated (LVA)" group and are strongly blocked by nickel and mibefradil. A particularity of this type of channels is an opening at quite negative potentials, and a voltage-dependent inactivation. T-type channels serve pacemaking functions in both central neurons and cardiac nodal cells and support calcium signaling in secretory cells and vascular smooth muscle. They may also be involved in the modulation of firing patterns of neurons which is important for information processing as well as in cell growth processes. Gates in voltage ranges similar to, but higher than alpha 1G or alpha 1H (By similarity).	same
CABP5	The product of this gene belongs to a subfamily of calcium binding proteins, which share similarity to calmodulin. Calcium binding proteins are an important component of calcium mediated cellular signal transduction. Expression of this gene is retina-specific. The mouse homolog of this protein has been shown to express in the inner nuclear layer of the retina, suggested its role in neuronal functioning. The specific function of this gene is unknown. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]	CABP5 (Calcium Binding Protein 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CABP5 include amebiasis. Among its related pathways are Visual Cycle in Retinal Rods. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CABP2.	Inhibits calcium-dependent inactivation of L-type calcium channel and shifts voltage dependence of activation to more depolarized membrane potentials. Involved in the transmission of light signals (By similarity).	same
CACNA1B	The protein encoded by this gene is the pore-forming subunit of an N-type voltage-dependent calcium channel, which controls neurotransmitter release from neurons. The encoded protein forms a complex with alpha-2, beta, and delta subunits to form the high-voltage activated channel. This channel is sensitive to omega-conotoxin-GVIA and omega-agatoxin-IIIA but insensitive to dihydropyridines. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	CACNA1B (Calcium Channel, Voltage-Dependent, N Type, Alpha 1B Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CACNA1B include epidemic pleurodynia and autoimmune autonomic ganglionopathy. Among its related pathways are MAPK signaling pathway and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and voltage-gated calcium channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CACNA1A.	Voltage-sensitive calcium channels (VSCC) mediate the entry of calcium ions into excitable cells and are also involved in a variety of calcium-dependent processes, including muscle contraction, hormone or neurotransmitter release, gene expression, cell motility, cell division and cell death. The isoform alpha-1B gives rise to N-type calcium currents. N-type calcium channels belong to the high-voltage activated (HVA) group and are blocked by omega-conotoxin-GVIA (omega-CTx-GVIA) and by omega-agatoxin-IIIA (omega-Aga-IIIA). They are however insensitive to dihydropyridines (DHP), and omega-agatoxin-IVA (omega-Aga-IVA). Calcium channels containing alpha-1B subunit may play a role in directed migration of immature neurons	same
CACNA2D4	This gene encodes a member of the alpha-2/delta subunit family, a protein in the voltage-dependent calcium channel complex. Calcium channels mediate the influx of calcium ions into the cell upon membrane polarization and consist of a complex of alpha-1, alpha-2/delta, beta, and gamma subunits in a 1:1:1:1 ratio. Various versions of each of these subunits exist, either expressed from similar genes or the result of alternative splicing. Research on a highly similar protein in rabbit suggests the protein described in this record is cleaved into alpha-2 and delta subunits. Alternate transcriptional splice variants of this gene have been observed but have not been thoroughly characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CACNA2D4 (Calcium Channel, Voltage-Dependent, Alpha 2/Delta Subunit 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CACNA2D4 include retinal cone dystrophy 4 and cone dystrophy 4. Among its related pathways are MAPK signaling pathway and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium channel activity and voltage-gated ion channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CACNA2D1.	The alpha-2/delta subunit of voltage-dependent calcium channels regulates calcium current density and activation/inactivation kinetics of the calcium channel.	same
CACNG1	Voltage-dependent calcium channels are composed of five subunits. The protein encoded by this gene represents one of these subunits, gamma, and is one of two known gamma subunit proteins. This particular gamma subunit is part of skeletal muscle 1,4-dihydropyridine-sensitive calcium channels and is an integral membrane protein that plays a role in excitation-contraction coupling. This gene is part of a functionally diverse eight-member protein subfamily of the PMP-22/EMP/MP20 family and is located in a cluster with two family members that function as transmembrane AMPA receptor regulatory proteins (TARPs). [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]	CACNG1 (Calcium Channel, Voltage-Dependent, Gamma Subunit 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CACNG1 include malignant hyperthermia susceptibility and arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy. Among its related pathways are MAPK signaling pathway and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include voltage-gated calcium channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CACNG6.	This protein is a subunit of the dihydropyridine (DHP) sensitive calcium channel. Plays a role in excitation-contraction coupling. The skeletal muscle DHP-sensitive Ca(2+) channel may function only as a multiple subunit complex	same
CACNB1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the calcium channel beta subunit family. It plays an important role in the calcium channel by modulating G protein inhibition, increasing peak calcium current, controlling the alpha-1 subunit membrane targeting and shifting the voltage dependence of activation and inactivation. Alternative splicing occurs at this locus and three transcript variants encoding three distinct isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CACNB1 (Calcium Channel, Voltage-Dependent, Beta 1 Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CACNB1 include malignant hyperthermia susceptibility and arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy. Among its related pathways are MAPK signaling pathway and L1CAM interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include voltage-gated calcium channel activity and high voltage-gated calcium channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CACNB4.	The beta subunit of voltage-dependent calcium channels contributes to the function of the calcium channel by increasing peak calcium current, shifting the voltage dependencies of activation and inactivation, modulating G protein inhibition and controlling the alpha-1 subunit membrane targeting	same
CACNB3	This gene encodes a regulatory beta subunit of the voltage-dependent calcium channel. Beta subunits are composed of five domains, which contribute to the regulation of surface expression and gating of calcium channels and may also play a role in the regulation of transcription factors and calcium transport. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]	CACNB3 (Calcium Channel, Voltage-Dependent, Beta 3 Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CACNB3 include canavan disease and arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy. Among its related pathways are MAPK signaling pathway and L1CAM interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include voltage-gated calcium channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CACNB4.	The beta subunit of voltage-dependent calcium channels contributes to the function of the calcium channel by increasing peak calcium current, shifting the voltage dependencies of activation and inactivation, modulating G protein inhibition and controlling the alpha-1 subunit membrane targeting	same
CACNA2D3	This gene encodes a member of the alpha-2/delta subunit family, a protein in the voltage-dependent calcium channel complex. Calcium channels mediate the influx of calcium ions into the cell upon membrane polarization and consist of a complex of alpha-1, alpha-2/delta, beta, and gamma subunits in a 1:1:1:1 ratio. Various versions of each of these subunits exist, either expressed from similar genes or the result of alternative splicing. Research on a highly similar protein in rabbit suggests the protein described in this record is cleaved into alpha-2 and delta subunits. Alternate transcriptional splice variants of this gene have been observed but have not been thoroughly characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CACNA2D3 (Calcium Channel, Voltage-Dependent, Alpha 2/Delta Subunit 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CACNA2D3 include zimmermann-laband syndrome and hereditary night blindness. Among its related pathways are MAPK signaling pathway and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include voltage-gated calcium channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CACNA2D4.	The alpha-2/delta subunit of voltage-dependent calcium channels regulates calcium current density and activation/inactivation kinetics of the calcium channel. Acts as a regulatory subunit for P/Q-type calcium channel (CACNA1A), N-type (CACNA1B), L-type (CACNA1C OR CACNA1D) but not T-type (CACNA1G) (By similarity).	same
CACNA1S	This gene encodes one of the five subunits of the slowly inactivating L-type voltage-dependent calcium channel in skeletal muscle cells. Mutations in this gene have been associated with hypokalemic periodic paralysis, thyrotoxic periodic paralysis and malignant hyperthermia susceptibility. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CACNA1S (Calcium Channel, Voltage-Dependent, L Type, Alpha 1S Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CACNA1S include hypokalemic periodic paralysis, type 1 and thyrotoxic periodic paralysis 1. Among its related pathways are MAPK signaling pathway and L1CAM interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include voltage-gated calcium channel activity and high voltage-gated calcium channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CACNA1D.	Voltage-sensitive calcium channels (VSCC) mediate the entry of calcium ions into excitable cells and are also involved in a variety of calcium-dependent processes, including muscle contraction, hormone or neurotransmitter release, gene expression, cell motility, cell division and cell death. The isoform alpha-1S gives rise to L-type calcium currents. Long-lasting (L-type) calcium channels belong to the high-voltage activated (HVA) group. They are blocked by dihydropyridines (DHP), phenylalkylamines, benzothiazepines, and by omega-agatoxin-IIIA (omega-Aga-IIIA). They are however insensitive to omega-conotoxin-GVIA (omega-CTx-GVIA) and omega-agatoxin-IVA (omega-Aga-IVA). Calcium channels containing the alpha-1S subunit play an important role in excitation-contraction coupling in skeletal muscle	same
CACNB4	This gene encodes a member of the beta subunit family of voltage-dependent calcium channel complex proteins. Calcium channels mediate the influx of calcium ions into the cell upon membrane polarization and consist of a complex of alpha-1, alpha-2/delta, beta, and gamma subunits in a 1:1:1:1 ratio. Various versions of each of these subunits exist, either expressed from similar genes or the result of alternative splicing. The protein encoded by this locus plays an important role in calcium channel function by modulating G protein inhibition, increasing peak calcium current, controlling the alpha-1 subunit membrane targeting and shifting the voltage dependence of activation and inactivation. Certain mutations in this gene have been associated with idiopathic generalized epilepsy (IGE) and juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME). Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]	CACNB4 (Calcium Channel, Voltage-Dependent, Beta 4 Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CACNB4 include epilepsy, idiopathic generalized 9 and episodic ataxia, type 5. Among its related pathways are MAPK signaling pathway and L1CAM interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include voltage-gated calcium channel activity and high voltage-gated calcium channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CACNB3.	The beta subunit of voltage-dependent calcium channels contributes to the function of the calcium channel by increasing peak calcium current, shifting the voltage dependencies of activation and inactivation, modulating G protein inhibition and controlling the alpha-1 subunit membrane targeting	same
CACNG2	The protein encoded by this gene is a type I transmembrane AMPA receptor regulatory protein (TARP). TARPs regulate both trafficking and channel gating of the AMPA receptors. This gene is part of a functionally diverse eight-member protein subfamily of the PMP-22/EMP/MP20 family. This gene is a susceptibility locus for schizophrenia. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]	CACNG2 (Calcium Channel, Voltage-Dependent, Gamma Subunit 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CACNG2 include mental retardation, autosomal dominant 10 and autosomal dominant non-syndromic intellectual disability. Among its related pathways are MAPK signaling pathway and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include voltage-gated calcium channel activity and ionotropic glutamate receptor binding. An important paralog of this gene is CACNG3.	Regulates the trafficking and gating properties of AMPA-selective glutamate receptors (AMPARs). Promotes their targeting to the cell membrane and synapses and modulates their gating properties by slowing their rates of activation, deactivation and desensitization. Does not show subunit-specific AMPA receptor regulation and regulates all AMPAR subunits. Thought to stabilize the calcium channel in an inactivated (closed) state.	same
CACNG5	The protein encoded by this gene is a type II transmembrane AMPA receptor regulatory protein (TARP). TARPs regulate both trafficking and channel gating of the AMPA receptors. This gene is part of a functionally diverse eight-member protein subfamily of the PMP-22/EMP/MP20 family and is located in a cluster with two family members, a type I TARP and a calcium channel gamma subunit. This gene is a susceptibility locus for schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]	CACNG5 (Calcium Channel, Voltage-Dependent, Gamma Subunit 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CACNG5 include arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy and bipolar disorder. Among its related pathways are MAPK signaling pathway and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include voltage-gated calcium channel activity and ion transmembrane transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is CACNG2.	Regulates the gating properties of AMPA-selective glutamate receptors (AMPARs). Modulates their gating properties by accelerating their rates of activation, deactivation and desensitization. Displays subunit-specific AMPA receptor regulation. Shows specificity for GRIA1, GRIA4 and the long isoform of GRIA2. Thought to stabilize the calcium channel in an inactivated (closed) state (By similarity).	same
CACNG6	Voltage-dependent calcium channels are composed of five subunits. The protein encoded by this gene represents one of these subunits, gamma, and is one of two known gamma subunit proteins. This particular gamma subunit is an integral membrane protein that is thought to stabilize the calcium channel in an inactive (closed) state. This gene is part of a functionally diverse eight-member protein subfamily of the PMP-22/EMP/MP20 family and is located in a cluster with two family members that function as transmembrane AMPA receptor regulatory proteins (TARPs). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Variants in this gene have been associated with aspirin-intolerant asthma. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]	CACNG6 (Calcium Channel, Voltage-Dependent, Gamma Subunit 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CACNG6 include arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy and asthma. Among its related pathways are MAPK signaling pathway and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include voltage-gated calcium channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CACNG1.	Thought to stabilize the calcium channel in an inactivated (closed) state.	same
CACNG3	The protein encoded by this gene is a type I transmembrane AMPA receptor regulatory protein (TARP). TARPs regulate both trafficking and channel gating of the AMPA receptors. This gene is part of a functionally diverse eight-member protein subfamily of the PMP-22/EMP/MP20 family. This gene is a susceptibility locus for childhood absence epilepsy. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]	CACNG3 (Calcium Channel, Voltage-Dependent, Gamma Subunit 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CACNG3 include juvenile absence epilepsy. Among its related pathways are MAPK signaling pathway and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include voltage-gated calcium channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CACNG2.	Regulates the trafficking and gating properties of AMPA-selective glutamate receptors (AMPARs). Promotes their targeting to the cell membrane and synapses and modulates their gating properties by slowing their rates of activation, deactivation and desensitization. Does not show subunit-specific AMPA receptor regulation and regulates all AMPAR subunits. Thought to stabilize the calcium channel in an inactivated (closed) state (By similarity).	same
CACNG8	The protein encoded by this gene is a type I transmembrane AMPA receptor regulatory protein (TARP). TARPs regulate both trafficking and channel gating of the AMPA receptors. This gene is part of a functionally diverse eight-member protein subfamily of the PMP-22/EMP/MP20 family and is located in a cluster with two family members, a type II TARP and a calcium channel gamma subunit. The mRNA for this gene is believed to initiate translation from a non-AUG (CUG) start codon. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]	CACNG8 (Calcium Channel, Voltage-Dependent, Gamma Subunit 8) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CACNG8 include arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy. Among its related pathways are MAPK signaling pathway and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include voltage-gated calcium channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CACNG2.	Regulates the trafficking and gating properties of AMPA-selective glutamate receptors (AMPARs). Promotes their targeting to the cell membrane and synapses and modulates their gating properties by slowing their rates of activation, deactivation and desensitization and by mediating their resensitization. Does not show subunit-specific AMPA receptor regulation and regulates all AMPAR subunits. Thought to stabilize the calcium channel in an inactivated (closed) state.	same
CACNG7	The protein encoded by this gene is a type II transmembrane AMPA receptor regulatory protein (TARP). TARPs regulate both trafficking and channel gating of the AMPA receptors. This gene is part of a functionally diverse eight-member protein subfamily of the PMP-22/EMP/MP20 family and is located in a cluster with two family members, a type I TARP and a calcium channel gamma subunit. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]	CACNG7 (Calcium Channel, Voltage-Dependent, Gamma Subunit 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are MAPK signaling pathway and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include voltage-gated calcium channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CACNG2.	Regulates the trafficking and gating properties of AMPA-selective glutamate receptors (AMPARs). Promotes their targeting to the cell membrane and synapses and modulates their gating properties by slowing their rates of activation, deactivation and desensitization and by mediating their resensitization. Displays subunit-specific AMPA receptor regulation. Shows specificity only for GRIA1 and GRIA2. Thought to stabilize the calcium channel in an inactivated (closed) state.	same
CACNA2D2	Calcium channels mediate the entry of calcium ions into the cell upon membrane polarization. This gene encodes the alpha-2/delta subunit of the voltage-dependent calcium channel complex. The complex consists of the main channel-forming subunit alpha-1, and auxiliary subunits alpha-2/delta, beta, and gamma. The auxiliary subunits function in the assembly and membrane localization of the complex, and modulate calcium currents and channel activation/inactivation kinetics. The subunit encoded by this gene undergoes post-translational cleavage to yield the extracellular alpha2 peptide and a membrane-anchored delta polypeptide. This subunit is a receptor for the antiepileptic drug, gabapentin. Mutations in this gene are associated with early infantile epileptic encephalopathy. Single nucleotide polymorphisms in this gene are correlated with increased sensitivity to opioid drugs. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2014]	CACNA2D2 (Calcium Channel, Voltage-Dependent, Alpha 2/Delta Subunit 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CACNA2D2 include infantile epileptic encephalopathy. Among its related pathways are MAPK signaling pathway and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include voltage-gated calcium channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CACNA2D4.	The alpha-2/delta subunit of voltage-dependent calcium channels regulates calcium current density and activation/inactivation kinetics of the calcium channel. Acts as a regulatory subunit for P/Q-type calcium channel (CACNA1A), N-type (CACNA1B), L-type (CACNA1C OR CACNA1D) and possibly T-type (CACNA1G). Overexpression induces apoptosis.	same
CACNA2D1	The preproprotein encoded by this gene is cleaved into multiple chains that comprise the alpha-2 and delta subunits of the voltage-dependent calcium channel complex. Calcium channels mediate the influx of calcium ions into the cell upon membrane polarization. Mutations in this gene can cause cardiac deficiencies, including Brugada syndrome and short QT syndrome. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants, some of which may lack the delta subunit portion. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]	CACNA2D1 (Calcium Channel, Voltage-Dependent, Alpha 2/Delta Subunit 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CACNA2D1 include familial short qt syndrome and short qt syndrome. Among its related pathways are MAPK signaling pathway and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include voltage-gated calcium channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CACNA2D4.	The alpha-2/delta subunit of voltage-dependent calcium channels regulates calcium current density and activation/inactivation kinetics of the calcium channel. Plays an important role in excitation-contraction coupling (By similarity).	same
CACYBP	The protein encoded by this gene is a calcyclin binding protein. It may be involved in calcium-dependent ubiquitination and subsequent proteosomal degradation of target proteins. It probably serves as a molecular bridge in ubiquitin E3 complexes and participates in the ubiquitin-mediated degradation of beta-catenin. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CACYBP (Calcyclin Binding Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CACYBP include neuroblastoma. Among its related pathways are Protein Stability and Wnt / Hedgehog / Notch. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity.	May be involved in calcium-dependent ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of target proteins. Probably serves as a molecular bridge in ubiquitin E3 complexes. Participates in the ubiquitin-mediated degradation of beta-catenin (CTNNB1).	same
CADM2	This gene encodes a member of the synaptic cell adhesion molecule 1 (SynCAM) family which belongs to the immunoglobulin (Ig) superfamily. The encoded protein has three Ig-like domains and a cytosolic protein 4.1 binding site near the C-terminus. Proteins belonging to the protein 4.1 family crosslink spectrin and interact with other cytoskeletal proteins. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]	CADM2 (Cell Adhesion Molecule 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell junction organization and Cell junction organization. An important paralog of this gene is CADM3.	Adhesion molecule that engages in homo- and heterophilic interactions with the other nectin-like family members, leading to cell aggregation. Important for synapse organization, providing regulated trans-synaptic adhesion. Preferentially binds to oligodendrocytes.	same
CADM4	empty	CADM4 (Cell Adhesion Molecule 4) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CADM3.	Involved in the cell-cell adhesion. Has calcium- and magnesium-independent cell-cell adhesion activity. May have tumor-suppressor activity.	same
CADM3	IGSF4B is a brain-specific protein related to the calcium-independent cell-cell adhesion molecules known as nectins (see PVRL3; MIM 607147) (Kakunaga et al., 2005 [PubMed 15741237]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CADM3 (Cell Adhesion Molecule 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell junction organization and Cell junction organization. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity. An important paralog of this gene is CRTAM.	Involved in the cell-cell adhesion. Has both calcium-independent homophilic cell-cell adhesion activity and calcium-independent heterophilic cell-cell adhesion activity with IGSF4, PVRL1 and PVRL3. Interaction with EPB41L1 may regulate structure or function of cell-cell junctions (By similarity).	same
CADPS2	This gene encodes a member of the calcium-dependent activator of secretion (CAPS) protein family, which are calcium binding proteins that regulate the exocytosis of synaptic and dense-core vesicles in neurons and neuroendocrine cells. Mutations in this gene may contribute to autism susceptibility. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]	CADPS2 (Ca++-Dependent Secretion Activator 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is CADPS.	Calcium-binding protein involved in exocytosis of vesicles filled with neurotransmitters and neuropeptides. Probably acts upstream of fusion in the biogenesis or maintenance of mature secretory vesicles. Regulates neurotrophin release from granule cells leading to regulate cell differentiation and survival during cerebellar development. May specifically mediate the Ca(2+)-dependent exocytosis of large dense-core vesicles (DCVs) and other dense-core vesicles (By similarity).	same
CADPS	This gene encodes a novel neural/endocrine-specific cytosolic and peripheral membrane protein required for the Ca2+-regulated exocytosis of secretory vesicles. The protein acts at a stage in exocytosis that follows ATP-dependent priming, which involves the essential synthesis of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PtdIns(4,5)P2). Alternative splicing has been observed at this locus and three variants, encoding distinct isoforms, are described. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]	CADPS (Ca++-Dependent Secretion Activator) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CADPS include pineoblastoma. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is CADPS2.	Calcium-binding protein involved in exocytosis of vesicles filled with neurotransmitters and neuropeptides. Probably acts upstream of fusion in the biogenesis or maintenance of mature secretory vesicles. Regulates catecholamine loading of DCVs. May specifically mediate the Ca(2+)-dependent exocytosis of large dense-core vesicles (DCVs) and other dense-core vesicles by acting as a PtdIns(4,5)P2-binding protein that acts at prefusion step following ATP-dependent priming and participates in DCVs-membrane fusion. However, it may also participate in small clear synaptic vesicles (SVs) exocytosis and it is unclear whether its function is related to Ca(2+) triggering (By similarity).	same
CALCA	This gene encodes the peptide hormones calcitonin, calcitonin gene-related peptide and katacalcin by tissue-specific alternative RNA splicing of the gene transcripts and cleavage of inactive precursor proteins. Calcitonin is involved in calcium regulation and acts to regulate phosphorus metabolism. Calcitonin gene-related peptide functions as a vasodilator and as an antimicrobial peptide while katacalcin is a calcium-lowering peptide. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2014]	CALCA (Calcitonin-Related Polypeptide Alpha) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CALCA include spinal stenosis and complex regional pain syndrome. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and protein complex binding. An important paralog of this gene is CALCB.	CGRP induces vasodilation. It dilates a variety of vessels including the coronary, cerebral and systemic vasculature. Its abundance in the CNS also points toward a neurotransmitter or neuromodulator role. It also elevates platelet cAMP.	same
CAGE1	empty	CAGE1 (Cancer Antigen 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CACNG4	The protein encoded by this gene is a type I transmembrane AMPA receptor regulatory protein (TARP). TARPs regulate both trafficking and channel gating of the AMPA receptors. This gene is part of a functionally diverse eight-member protein subfamily of the PMP-22/EMP/MP20 family and is located in a cluster with two family members, a type II TARP and a calcium channel gamma subunit. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]	CACNG4 (Calcium Channel, Voltage-Dependent, Gamma Subunit 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are MAPK signaling pathway and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include voltage-gated calcium channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CACNG2.	Regulates the trafficking and gating properties of AMPA-selective glutamate receptors (AMPARs). Promotes their targeting to the cell membrane and synapses and modulates their gating properties by slowing their rates of activation, deactivation and desensitization and by mediating their resensitization. Does not show subunit-specific AMPA receptor regulation and regulates all AMPAR subunits. Thought to stabilize the calcium channel in an inactivated (closed) state.	same
CAD	The de novo synthesis of pyrimidine nucleotides is required for mammalian cells to proliferate. This gene encodes a trifunctional protein which is associated with the enzymatic activities of the first 3 enzymes in the 6-step pathway of pyrimidine biosynthesis: carbamoylphosphate synthetase (CPS II), aspartate transcarbamoylase, and dihydroorotase. This protein is regulated by the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascade, which indicates a direct link between activation of the MAPK cascade and de novo biosynthesis of pyrimidine nucleotides. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CAD (Carbamoyl-Phosphate Synthetase 2, Aspartate Transcarbamylase, And Dihydroorotase) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle / Checkpoint Control and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and protein kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CPS1.	This protein is a "fusion" protein encoding four enzymatic activities of the pyrimidine pathway (GATase, CPSase, ATCase and DHOase).	same
CACNB2	This gene encodes a subunit of a voltage-dependent calcium channel protein that is a member of the voltage-gated calcium channel superfamily. The gene product was originally identified as an antigen target in Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome, an autoimmune disorder. Mutations in this gene are associated with Brugada syndrome. Alternatively spliced variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2013]	CACNB2 (Calcium Channel, Voltage-Dependent, Beta 2 Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CACNB2 include brugada syndrome 4 and lambert-eaton myasthenic syndrome. Among its related pathways are MAPK signaling pathway and L1CAM interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium channel activity and high voltage-gated calcium channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CACNB4.	The beta subunit of voltage-dependent calcium channels contributes to the function of the calcium channel by increasing peak calcium current, shifting the voltage dependencies of activation and inactivation, modulating G protein inhibition and controlling the alpha-1 subunit membrane targeting	same
CADM1	empty	CADM1 (Cell Adhesion Molecule 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CADM1 include asthenopia and facial paralysis. Among its related pathways are Cell junction organization and Cell junction organization. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and protein C-terminus binding. An important paralog of this gene is CADM3.	Mediates homophilic cell-cell adhesion in a Ca(2+)-independent manner. Also mediates heterophilic cell-cell adhesion with CADM3 and PVRL3 in a Ca(2+)-independent manner. Acts as a tumor suppressor in non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cells. Interaction with CRTAM promotes natural killer (NK) cell cytotoxicity and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) secretion by CD8+ cells in vitro as well as NK cell-mediated rejection of tumors expressing CADM3 in vivo. May contribute to the less invasive phenotypes of lepidic growth tumor cells. In mast cells, may mediate attachment to and promote communication with nerves. CADM1, together with MITF, is essential for development and survival of mast cells in vivo. Acts as a synaptic cell adhesion molecule and plays a role in the formation of dendritic spines and in synapse assembly (By similarity). May be involved in neuronal migration, axon growth, pathfinding, and fasciculation on the axons of differentiating neurons. May play diverse roles in the spermatogenesis including in the adhesion of spermatocytes and spermatids to Sertoli cells and for their normal differentiation into mature spermatozoa.	same
CALCOCO2	This gene encodes a coiled-coil domain-containing protein. The encoded protein functions as a receptor for ubiquitin-coated bacteria and plays an important role in innate immunity by mediating macroautophagy. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]	CALCOCO2 (Calcium Binding And Coiled-Coil Domain 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Apoptosis and Autophagy and NF-kappaB Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity. An important paralog of this gene is TAX1BP1.	May play a role in ruffle formation and actin cytoskeleton organization. Seems to negatively regulate constitutive secretion.	same
CALCOCO1	empty	CALCOCO1 (Calcium Binding And Coiled-Coil Domain 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding and transcription coactivator activity. An important paralog of this gene is TAX1BP1.	Functions as a coactivator for aryl hydrocarbon and nuclear receptors (NR). Recruited to promoters through its contact with the N-terminal basic helix-loop-helix-Per-Arnt-Sim (PAS) domain of transcription factors or coactivators, such as NCOA2. During ER-activation acts synergistically in combination with other NCOA2-binding proteins, such as EP300, CREBBP and CARM1. Involved in the transcriptional activation of target genes in the Wnt/CTNNB1 pathway. Functions as a secondary coactivator in LEF1-mediated transcriptional activation via its interaction with CTNNB1. Coactivator function for nuclear receptors and LEF1/CTNNB1 involves differential utilization of two different activation regions (By similarity).	same
CALCRL	empty	CALCRL (Calcitonin Receptor-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CALCRL include pulpitis and primary angle-closure glaucoma. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include G-protein coupled receptor activity and calcitonin receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is VIPR2.	Receptor for calcitonin-gene-related peptide (CGRP) together with RAMP1 and receptor for adrenomedullin together with RAMP3 (By similarity). Receptor for adrenomedullin together with RAMP2. The activity of this receptor is mediated by G proteins which activate adenylyl cyclase.	same
CALHM2	empty	CALHM2 (Calcium Homeostasis Modulator 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CALHM2 include alzheimer disease. An important paralog of this gene is FAM26F.	Pore-forming subunit of a voltage-gated ion channel.	same
CALHM1	This gene encodes a calcium channel that plays a role in processing of amyloid-beta precursor protein. A polymorphism at this locus has been reported to be associated with susceptibility to late-onset Alzheimer's disease in some populations, but the pathogenicity of this polymorphism is unclear.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]	CALHM1 (Calcium Homeostasis Modulator 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CALHM1 include temporal lobe epilepsy and alzheimer disease. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and voltage-gated ion channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is FAM26F.	Pore-forming subunit of a voltage-gated ion channel required for sensory perception of sweet, bitter and umami tastes. Specifically present in type II taste bud cells, where it plays a central role in sweet, bitter and umami taste perception by inducing ATP release from the cell, ATP acting as a neurotransmitter to activate afferent neural gustatory pathways. Acts both as a voltage-gated and calcium-activated ion channel: mediates neuronal excitability in response to changes in extracellular Ca(2+) concentration. Has poor ion selectivity and forms a wide pore (around 14 Angstroms) that mediates permeation of Ca(2+), Na(+) and K(+), as well as permeation of monovalent anions. Acts as an activator of the ERK1 and ERK2 cascade. Triggers endoplasmic reticulum stress by reducing the calcium content of the endoplasmic reticulum. May indirectly control amyloid precursor protein (APP) proteolysis and aggregated amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptides levels in a Ca(2+) dependent manner.	same
CALD1	This gene encodes a calmodulin- and actin-binding protein that plays an essential role in the regulation of smooth muscle and nonmuscle contraction. The conserved domain of this protein possesses the binding activities to Ca(2+)-calmodulin, actin, tropomyosin, myosin, and phospholipids. This protein is a potent inhibitor of the actin-tropomyosin activated myosin MgATPase, and serves as a mediating factor for Ca(2+)-dependent inhibition of smooth muscle contraction. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CALD1 (Caldesmon 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CALD1 include mixed endometrial stromal and smooth muscle tumor and breast leiomyosarcoma. Among its related pathways are Integrin Pathway and Cytoskeletal Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding and myosin binding.	Actin- and myosin-binding protein implicated in the regulation of actomyosin interactions in smooth muscle and nonmuscle cells (could act as a bridge between myosin and actin filaments). Stimulates actin binding of tropomyosin which increases the stabilization of actin filament structure. In muscle tissues, inhibits the actomyosin ATPase by binding to F-actin. This inhibition is attenuated by calcium-calmodulin and is potentiated by tropomyosin. Interacts with actin, myosin, two molecules of tropomyosin and with calmodulin. Also play an essential role during cellular mitosis and receptor capping. Involved in Schwann cell migration during peripheral nerve regeneration (By similarity).	same
CALHM3	empty	CALHM3 (Calcium Homeostasis Modulator 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CALHM3 include alzheimer disease. An important paralog of this gene is FAM26F.	Pore-forming subunit of a voltage-gated ion channel.	same
CALCB	empty	CALCB (Calcitonin-Related Polypeptide Beta) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CALCB include ewing sarcoma. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include neuropeptide hormone activity. An important paralog of this gene is CALCA.	CGRP induces vasodilation. It dilates a variety of vessels including the coronary, cerebral and systemic vasculature. Its abundance in the CNS also points toward a neurotransmitter or neuromodulator role	same
CALM2	This gene is a member of the calmodulin gene family. There are three distinct calmodulin genes dispersed throughout the genome that encode the identical protein, but differ at the nucleotide level. Calmodulin is a calcium binding protein that plays a role in signaling pathways, cell cycle progression and proliferation. Several infants with severe forms of long-QT syndrome (LQTS) who displayed life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias together with delayed neurodevelopment and epilepsy were found to have mutations in either this gene or another member of the calmodulin gene family (PMID:23388215). Mutations in this gene have also been identified in patients with less severe forms of LQTS (PMID:24917665), while mutations in another calmodulin gene family member have been associated with catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (CPVT)(PMID:23040497), a rare disorder thought to be the cause of a significant fraction of sudden cardiac deaths in young individuals. Pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosomes 10, 13, and 17. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2015]	CALM2 (Calmodulin 2 (Phosphorylase Kinase, Delta)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CALM2 include phencyclidine abuse and otomycosis. Among its related pathways are PI-3K cascade and Signaling by FGFR. An important paralog of this gene is CABP2.	Calmodulin mediates the control of a large number of enzymes, ion channels, aquaporins and other proteins by Ca(2+). Among the enzymes to be stimulated by the calmodulin-Ca(2+) complex are a number of protein kinases and phosphatases. Together with CCP110 and centrin, is involved in a genetic pathway that regulates the centrosome cycle and progression through cytokinesis.	same
CALCR	This gene encodes a high affinity receptor for the peptide hormone calcitonin and belongs to a subfamily of seven transmembrane-spanning G protein-coupled receptors. The encoded protein is involved in maintaining calcium homeostasis and in regulating osteoclast-mediated bone resorption. Polymorphisms in this gene have been associated with variations in bone mineral density and onset of osteoporosis. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]	CALCR (Calcitonin Receptor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CALCR include osteoporosis and lung cancer. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor activity and calcitonin receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is VIPR2.	This is a receptor for calcitonin. The activity of this receptor is mediated by G proteins which activate adenylyl cyclase. The calcitonin receptor is thought to couple to the heterotrimeric guanosine triphosphate-binding protein that is sensitive to cholera toxin	same
CALB1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the calcium-binding protein superfamily that includes calmodulin and troponin C. Originally described as a 27 kDa protein, it is now known to be a 28 kDa protein. It contains four active calcium-binding domains, and has two modified domains that are thought to have lost their calcium binding capability. This protein is thought to buffer entry of calcium upon stimulation of glutamate receptors. Depletion of this protein was noted in patients with Huntington disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2015]	CALB1 (Calbindin 1, 28kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CALB1 include subependymal giant cell astrocytoma and synucleinopathy. Among its related pathways are Transcription_Role of VDR in regulation of genes involved in osteoporosis and Neuroscience. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and vitamin D binding. An important paralog of this gene is CALB2.	Buffers cytosolic calcium. May stimulate a membrane Ca(2+)-ATPase and a 3,5-cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase	same
CALM3	empty	CALM3 (Calmodulin 3 (Phosphorylase Kinase, Delta)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CALM3 include otomycosis and pseudoachondroplasia. Among its related pathways are PI-3K cascade and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and ion channel binding. An important paralog of this gene is CABP2.	Calmodulin mediates the control of a large number of enzymes, ion channels, aquaporins and other proteins by Ca(2+). Among the enzymes to be stimulated by the calmodulin-Ca(2+) complex are a number of protein kinases and phosphatases. Together with CCP110 and centrin, is involved in a genetic pathway that regulates the centrosome cycle and progression through cytokinesis.	same
CALML4	empty	CALML4 (Calmodulin-Like 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CALML4 include breast cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CABP2.	empty	same
CALB2	This gene encodes an intracellular calcium-binding protein belonging to the troponin C superfamily. Members of this protein family have six EF-hand domains which bind calcium. This protein plays a role in diverse cellular functions, including message targeting and intracellular calcium buffering. It also functions as a modulator of neuronal excitability, and is a diagnostic marker for some human diseases, including Hirschsprung disease and some cancers. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	CALB2 (Calbindin 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CALB2 include trisomy 22 and sex cord-gonadal stromal tumor. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is SCGN.	Calretinin is a calcium-binding protein which is abundant in auditory neurons	same
CALML3	empty	CALML3 (Calmodulin-Like 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CALML3 include pertussis. Among its related pathways are Ras signaling pathway and Ras signaling pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CABP2.	May function as a specific light chain of unconventional myosin-10 (MYO10), also enhances MYO10 translation, possibly by acting as a chaperone for the emerging MYO10 heavy chain protein. May compete with calmodulin by binding, with different affinities, to cellular substrates.	same
CALML5	This gene encodes a novel calcium binding protein expressed in the epidermis and related to the calmodulin family of calcium binding proteins. Functional studies with recombinant protein demonstrate it does bind calcium and undergoes a conformational change when it does so. Abundant expression is detected only in reconstructed epidermis and is restricted to differentiating keratinocytes. In addition, it can associate with transglutaminase 3, shown to be a key enzyme in the terminal differentiation of keratinocytes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CALML5 (Calmodulin-Like 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CALML5 include pertussis. Among its related pathways are Ras signaling pathway and Ras signaling pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CABP2.	Binds calcium. May be involved in terminal differentiation of keratinocytes	same
CALM1	This gene encodes a member of the EF-hand calcium-binding protein family. It is one of three genes which encode an identical calcium binding protein which is one of the four subunits of phosphorylase kinase. Two pseudogenes have been identified on chromosome 7 and X. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]	CALM1 (Calmodulin 1 (Phosphorylase Kinase, Delta)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CALM1 include ventricular tachycardia, catecholaminergic polymorphic, 4 and calm1-related catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia. Among its related pathways are PI-3K cascade and Signaling by FGFR. An important paralog of this gene is CABP2.	Calmodulin mediates the control of a large number of enzymes, ion channels, aquaporins and other proteins by Ca(2+). Among the enzymes to be stimulated by the calmodulin-Ca(2+) complex are a number of protein kinases and phosphatases. Together with CCP110 and centrin, is involved in a genetic pathway that regulates the centrosome cycle and progression through cytokinesis.	same
CALML6	empty	CALML6 (Calmodulin-Like 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CALML6 include pertussis. Among its related pathways are Ras signaling pathway and Ras signaling pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CABP2.	empty	same
CALR3	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the calreticulin family, members of which are calcium-binding chaperones localized mainly in the endoplasmic reticulum. This protein is also localized to the endoplasmic reticulum lumen, however, its capacity for calcium-binding may be absent or much lower than other family members. This gene is specifically expressed in the testis, and may be required for sperm fertility. Mutation in this gene has been associated with familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	CALR3 (Calreticulin 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CALR3 include cardiomyopathy, familial hypertrophic, 19 and syncope. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and unfolded protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is CALR.	During spermatogenesis, may act as a lectin-independent chaperone for specific client proteins such as ADAM3. Required for sperm fertility (By similarity). CALR3 capacity for calcium-binding may be absent or much lower than that of CALR.	same
CALU	The product of this gene is a calcium-binding protein localized in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and it is involved in such ER functions as protein folding and sorting. This protein belongs to a family of multiple EF-hand proteins (CERC) that include reticulocalbin, ERC-55, and Cab45 and the product of this gene. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]	CALU (Calumenin) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Hemostasis and Hemostasis. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is RCN2.	Involved in regulation of vitamin K-dependent carboxylation of multiple N-terminal glutamate residues. Seems to inhibit gamma-carboxylase GGCX. Binds 7 calcium ions with a low affinity (By similarity).	same
CAMK1G	This gene encodes a protein similar to calcium/calmodulin dependent protein kinase, however, its exact function is not known. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CAMK1G (Calcium/Calmodulin-Dependent Protein Kinase IG) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CAMK1G include van der woude syndrome. Among its related pathways are GPCR Pathway and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include calmodulin binding and calmodulin-dependent protein kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DCX.	Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase belonging to a proposed calcium-triggered signaling cascade. In vitro phosphorylates transcription factor CREB1 (By similarity).	same
CAMK1D	This gene is a member of the calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase 1 family, a subfamily of the serine/threonine kinases. The encoded protein is a component of the calcium-regulated calmodulin-dependent protein kinase cascade. It has been associated with multiple processes including regulation of granulocyte function, activation of CREB-dependent gene transcription, aldosterone synthesis, differentiation and activation of neutrophil cells, and apoptosis of erythroleukemia cells. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms of this gene have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2015]	CAMK1D (Calcium/Calmodulin-Dependent Protein Kinase ID) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are ErbB signaling pathway and EGFR Signaling Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include calmodulin binding and calmodulin-dependent protein kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DCX.	Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase that operates in the calcium-triggered CaMKK-CaMK1 signaling cascade and, upon calcium influx, activates CREB-dependent gene transcription, regulates calcium-mediated granulocyte function and respiratory burst and promotes basal dendritic growth of hippocampal neurons. In neutrophil cells, required for cytokine-induced proliferative responses and activation of the respiratory burst. Activates the transcription factor CREB1 in hippocampal neuron nuclei. May play a role in apoptosis of erythroleukemia cells. In vitro, phosphorylates transcription factor CREM isoform Beta.	same
CAMK1	Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase I is expressed in many tissues and is a component of a calmodulin-dependent protein kinase cascade. Calcium/calmodulin directly activates calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase I by binding to the enzyme and indirectly promotes the phosphorylation and synergistic activation of the enzyme by calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase I kinase. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CAMK1 (Calcium/Calmodulin-Dependent Protein Kinase I) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are GPCR Pathway and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include calmodulin binding and calmodulin-dependent protein kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DCX.	Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase that operates in the calcium-triggered CaMKK-CaMK1 signaling cascade and, upon calcium influx, regulates transcription activators activity, cell cycle, hormone production, cell differentiation, actin filament organization and neurite outgrowth. Recognizes the substrate consensus sequence [MVLIF]-x-R-x(2)-[ST]-x(3)-[MVLIF]. Regulates axonal extension and growth cone motility in hippocampal and cerebellar nerve cells. Upon NMDA receptor-mediated Ca(2+) elevation, promotes dendritic growth in hippocampal neurons and is essential in synapses for full long-term potentiation (LTP) and ERK2-dependent translational activation. Downstream of NMDA receptors, promotes the formation of spines and synapses in hippocampal neurons by phosphorylating ARHGEF7/BETAPIX on Ser-694, which results in the enhancement of ARHGEF7 activity and activation of RAC1. Promotes neuronal differentiation and neurite outgrowth by activation and phosphorylation of MARK2 on Ser-91, Ser-92, Ser-93 and Ser-294. Promotes nuclear export of HDAC5 and binding to 14-3-3 by phosphorylation of Ser-259 and Ser-498 in the regulation of muscle cell differentiation. Regulates NUMB-mediated endocytosis by phosphorylation of NUMB on Ser-276 and Ser-295. Involved in the regulation of basal and estrogen-stimulated migration of medulloblastoma cells through ARHGEF7/BETAPIX phosphorylation (By similarity). Is required for proper activation of cyclin-D1/CDK4 complex during G1 progression in diploid fibroblasts. Plays a role in K(+) and ANG2-mediated regulation of the aldosterone synthase (CYP11B2) to produce aldosterone in the adrenal cortex. Phosphorylates EIF4G3/eIF4GII. In vitro phosphorylates CREB1, ATF1, CFTR, MYL9 and SYN1/synapsin I.	same
CAMK2A	The product of this gene belongs to the serine/threonine protein kinases family, and to the Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinases subfamily. Calcium signaling is crucial for several aspects of plasticity at glutamatergic synapses. This calcium calmodulin-dependent protein kinase is composed of four different chains: alpha, beta, gamma, and delta. The alpha chain encoded by this gene is required for hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) and spatial learning. In addition to its calcium-calmodulin (CaM)-dependent activity, this protein can undergo autophosphorylation, resulting in CaM-independent activity. Two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]	CAMK2A (Calcium/Calmodulin-Dependent Protein Kinase II Alpha) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Proteoglycans in cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include calmodulin binding and calmodulin-dependent protein kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DCX.	CaM-kinase II (CAMK2) is a prominent kinase in the central nervous system that may function in long-term potentiation and neurotransmitter release. Member of the NMDAR signaling complex in excitatory synapses it may regulate NMDAR-dependent potentiation of the AMPAR and synaptic plasticity (By similarity).	same
CAMK2N2	This gene encodes a protein that is highly similar to the rat CaM-KII inhibitory protein, an inhibitor of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CAMKII). CAMKII regulates numerous physiological functions, including neuronal synaptic plasticity through the phosphorylation of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid-type glutamate (AMPA) receptors. Studies of the similar protein in rat suggest that this protein may function as a negative regulator of CaM-KII and may act to inhibit the phosphorylation of AMPA receptors. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CAMK2N2 (Calcium/Calmodulin-Dependent Protein Kinase II Inhibitor 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CAMK2N2 include colorectal adenocarcinoma. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and calcium-dependent protein kinase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CAMK2N1.	Potent and specific cellular inhibitor of CaM-kinase II (CAMK2). Traps Ca(2+)/calmodulin on CAMK2. May play an important role in the regulation of cell growth when overexpressed in colon adenocarcinoma LoVo cells. Traps Ca(2+)/calmodulin on CAMK2.	same
CAMK2G	The product of this gene is one of the four subunits of an enzyme which belongs to the serine/threonine protein kinase family, and to the Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase subfamily. Calcium signaling is crucial for several aspects of plasticity at glutamatergic synapses. In mammalian cells the enzyme is composed of four different chains: alpha, beta, gamma, and delta. The product of this gene is a gamma chain. Many alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different isoforms have been described but the full-length nature of all the variants has not been determined.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]	CAMK2G (Calcium/Calmodulin-Dependent Protein Kinase II Gamma) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CAMK2G include timothy syndrome and usher syndrome, type 1f. Among its related pathways are Proteoglycans in cancer and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include calmodulin binding and calcium-dependent protein serine/threonine phosphatase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DCX.	Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase that functions autonomously after Ca(2+)/calmodulin-binding and autophosphorylation, and is involved in sarcoplsamic reticulum Ca(2+) transport in skeletal muscle and may function in dendritic spine and synapse formation and neuronal plasticity. In slow-twitch muscles, is involved in regulation of sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) Ca(2+) transport and in fast-twitch muscle participates in the control of Ca(2+) release from the SR through phosphorylation of the ryanodine receptor-coupling factor triadin. In neurons, may participate in the promotion of dendritic spine and synapse formation and maintenance of synaptic plasticity which enables long-term potentiation (LTP) and hippocampus-dependent learning.	same
CAMK2N1	empty	CAMK2N1 (Calcium/Calmodulin-Dependent Protein Kinase II Inhibitor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and calcium-dependent protein kinase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CAMK2N2.	Potent and specific inhibitor of CaM-kinase II (CAMK2).	same
CAMK2B	The product of this gene belongs to the serine/threonine protein kinase family and to the Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase subfamily. Calcium signaling is crucial for several aspects of plasticity at glutamatergic synapses. In mammalian cells, the enzyme is composed of four different chains: alpha, beta, gamma, and delta. The product of this gene is a beta chain. It is possible that distinct isoforms of this chain have different cellular localizations and interact differently with calmodulin. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2014]	CAMK2B (Calcium/Calmodulin-Dependent Protein Kinase II Beta) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CAMK2B include phencyclidine abuse. Among its related pathways are Proteoglycans in cancer and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding and calmodulin-dependent protein kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DCX.	Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase that functions autonomously after Ca(2+)/calmodulin-binding and autophosphorylation, and is involved in dendritic spine and synapse formation, neuronal plasticity and regulation of sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) transport in skeletal muscle. In neurons, plays an essential structural role in the reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton during plasticity by binding and bundling actin filaments in a kinase-independent manner. This structural function is required for correct targeting of CaMK2A, which acts downstream of NMDAR to promote dendritic spine and synapse formation and maintain synaptic plasticity which enables long-term potentiation (LTP) and hippocampus-dependent learning. In developing hippocampal neurons, promotes arborization of the dendritic tree and in mature neurons, promotes dendritic remodeling. Participates in the modulation of skeletal muscle function in response to exercise. In slow-twitch muscles, is involved in regulation of sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) Ca(2+) transport and in fast-twitch muscle participates in the control of Ca(2+) release from the SR through phosphorylation of triadin, a ryanodine receptor-coupling factor, and phospholamban (PLN/PLB), an endogenous inhibitor of SERCA2A/ATP2A2.	same
CAMK2D	The product of this gene belongs to the serine/threonine protein kinase family and to the Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase subfamily. Calcium signaling is crucial for several aspects of plasticity at glutamatergic synapses. In mammalian cells, the enzyme is composed of four different chains: alpha, beta, gamma, and delta. The product of this gene is a delta chain. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. Distinct isoforms of this chain have different expression patterns.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]	CAMK2D (Calcium/Calmodulin-Dependent Protein Kinase II Delta) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Proteoglycans in cancer and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include calmodulin binding and calmodulin-dependent protein kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DCX.	Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase involved in the regulation of Ca(2+) homeostatis and excitation-contraction coupling (ECC) in heart by targeting ion channels, transporters and accessory proteins involved in Ca(2+) influx into the myocyte, Ca(2+) release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR), SR Ca(2+) uptake and Na(+) and K(+) channel transport. Targets also transcription factors and signaling molecules to regulate heart function. In its activated form, is involved in the pathogenesis of dilated cardiomyopathy and heart failure. Contributes to cardiac decompensation and heart failure by regulating SR Ca(2+) release via direct phosphorylation of RYR2 Ca(2+) channel on Ser-2808. In the nucleus, phosphorylates the MEF2 repressor HDAC4, promoting its nuclear export and binding to 14-3-3 protein, and expression of MEF2 and genes involved in the hypertrophic program. Is essential for left ventricular remodeling responses to myocardial infarction. In pathological myocardial remodeling acts downstream of the beta adrenergic receptor signaling cascade to regulate key proteins involved in ECC. Regulates Ca(2+) influx to myocytes by binding and phosphorylating the L-type Ca(2+) channel subunit beta-2 CACNB2. In addition to Ca(2+) channels, can target and regulate the cardiac sarcolemmal Na(+) channel Nav1.5/SCN5A and the K+ channel Kv4.3/KCND3, which contribute to arrhythmogenesis in heart failure. Phosphorylates phospholamban (PLN/PLB), an endogenous inhibitor of SERCA2A/ATP2A2, contributing to the enhancement of SR Ca(2+) uptake that may be important in frequency-dependent acceleration of relaxation (FDAR) and maintenance of contractile function during acidosis. May participate in the modulation of skeletal muscle function in response to exercise, by regulating SR Ca(2+) transport through phosphorylation of PLN/PLB and triadin, a ryanodine receptor-coupling factor.	same
CAMKV	empty	CAMKV (CaM Kinase-Like Vesicle-Associated) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are EGFR Signaling Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase activity and calmodulin binding. An important paralog of this gene is DCX.	Does not appear to have detectable kinase activity	same
CAMK4	The product of this gene belongs to the serine/threonine protein kinase family, and to the Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase subfamily. This enzyme is a multifunctional serine/threonine protein kinase with limited tissue distribution, that has been implicated in transcriptional regulation in lymphocytes, neurons and male germ cells. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CAMK4 (Calcium/Calmodulin-Dependent Protein Kinase IV) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CAMK4 include cerebral hypoxia and allan-herndon-dudley syndrome. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include calmodulin binding and calmodulin-dependent protein kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DCX.	Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase that operates in the calcium-triggered CaMKK-CaMK4 signaling cascade and regulates, mainly by phosphorylation, the activity of several transcription activators, such as CREB1, MEF2D, JUN and RORA, which play pivotal roles in immune response, inflammation, and memory consolidation. In the thymus, regulates the CD4(+)/CD8(+) double positive thymocytes selection threshold during T-cell ontogeny. In CD4 memory T-cells, is required to link T-cell antigen receptor (TCR) signaling to the production of IL2, IFNG and IL4 (through the regulation of CREB and MEF2). Regulates the differentiation and survival phases of osteoclasts and dendritic cells (DCs). Mediates DCs survival by linking TLR4 and the regulation of temporal expression of BCL2. Phosphorylates the transcription activator CREB1 on Ser-133 in hippocampal neuron nuclei and contribute to memory consolidation and long term potentiation (LTP) in the hippocampus. Can activate the MAP kinases MAPK1/ERK2, MAPK8/JNK1 and MAPK14/p38 and stimulate transcription through the phosphorylation of ELK1 and ATF2. Can also phosphorylate in vitro CREBBP, PRM2, MEF2A and STMN1/OP18.	same
CAMKK2	The product of this gene belongs to the Serine/Threonine protein kinase family, and to the Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase subfamily. The major isoform of this gene plays a role in the calcium/calmodulin-dependent (CaM) kinase cascade by phosphorylating the downstream kinases CaMK1 and CaMK4. Protein products of this gene also phosphorylate AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). This gene has its strongest expression in the brain and influences signalling cascades involved with learning and memory, neuronal differentiation and migration, neurite outgrowth, and synapse formation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. The identified isoforms differ in their ability to undergo autophosphorylation and to phosphorylate downstream kinases. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]	CAMKK2 (Calcium/Calmodulin-Dependent Protein Kinase Kinase 2, Beta) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are CREB Pathway and Glucose / Energy Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and protein tyrosine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is STK11.	Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase belonging to a proposed calcium-triggered signaling cascade involved in a number of cellular processes. Isoform 1, isoform 2 and isoform 3 phosphorylate CAMK1 and CAMK4. Isoform 3 phosphorylates CAMK1D. Isoform 4, isoform 5 and isoform 6 lacking part of the calmodulin-binding domain are inactive. Efficiently phosphorylates 5-AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) trimer, including that consisting of PRKAA1, PRKAB1 and PRKAG1. This phosphorylation is stimulated in response to Ca(2+) signals (By similarity). Seems to be involved in hippocampal activation of CREB1 (By similarity). May play a role in neurite growth. Isoform 3 may promote neurite elongation, while isoform 1 may promoter neurite branching.	same
CAMKK1	The product of this gene belongs to the Serine/Threonine protein kinase family, and to the Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase subfamily. This protein plays a role in the calcium/calmodulin-dependent (CaM) kinase cascade. Three transcript variants encoding two distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CAMKK1 (Calcium/Calmodulin-Dependent Protein Kinase Kinase 1, Alpha) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are CREB Pathway and Ca-dependent events. GO annotations related to this gene include calmodulin binding and calmodulin-dependent protein kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is STK11.	Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase that belongs to a proposed calcium-triggered signaling cascade involved in a number of cellular processes. Phosphorylates CAMK1, CAMK1D, CAMK1G and CAMK4. Involved in regulating cell apoptosis. Promotes cell survival by phosphorylating AKT1/PKB that inhibits pro-apoptotic BAD/Bcl2-antagonist of cell death.	same
CAMP	This gene encodes a member of an antimicrobial peptide family, characterized by a highly conserved N-terminal signal peptide containing a cathelin domain and a structurally variable cationic antimicrobial peptide, which is produced by extracellular proteolysis from the C-terminus. In addition to its antibacterial, antifungal, and antiviral activities, the encoded protein functions in cell chemotaxis, immune mediator induction, and inflammatory response regulation. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	CAMP (Cathelicidin Antimicrobial Peptide) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CAMP include rosacea and eczema herpeticum. Among its related pathways are Disease and Integrated Pancreatic Cancer Pathway.	Binds to bacterial lipopolysaccharides (LPS), has antibacterial activity.	same
CAMLG	The immunosuppressant drug cyclosporin A blocks a calcium-dependent signal from the T-cell receptor (TCR) that normally leads to T-cell activation. When bound to cyclophilin B, cyclosporin A binds and inactivates the key signaling intermediate calcineurin. The protein encoded by this gene functions similarly to cyclosporin A, binding to cyclophilin B and acting downstream of the TCR and upstream of calcineurin by causing an influx of calcium. This integral membrane protein appears to be a new participant in the calcium signal transduction pathway, implicating cyclophilin B in calcium signaling, even in the absence of cyclosporin. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CAMLG (Calcium Modulating Ligand) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are RANK Signaling in Osteoclasts.	Likely involved in the mobilization of calcium as a result of the TCR/CD3 complex interaction. Binds to cyclophilin B	same
CALN1	This gene encodes a protein with high similarity to the calcium-binding proteins of the calmodulin family. The encoded protein contains two EF-hand domains and potential calcium-binding sites. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CALN1 (Calneuron 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CABP7.	Negatively regulates Golgi-to-plasma membrane trafficking by interacting with PI4KB and inhibiting its activity (By similarity). May play a role in the physiology of neurons and is potentially important in memory and learning.	same
CALR	Calreticulin is a multifunctional protein that acts as a major Ca(2+)-binding (storage) protein in the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum. It is also found in the nucleus, suggesting that it may have a role in transcription regulation. Calreticulin binds to the synthetic peptide KLGFFKR, which is almost identical to an amino acid sequence in the DNA-binding domain of the superfamily of nuclear receptors. Calreticulin binds to antibodies in certain sera of systemic lupus and Sjogren patients which contain anti-Ro/SSA antibodies, it is highly conserved among species, and it is located in the endoplasmic and sarcoplasmic reticulum where it may bind calcium. The amino terminus of calreticulin interacts with the DNA-binding domain of the glucocorticoid receptor and prevents the receptor from binding to its specific glucocorticoid response element. Calreticulin can inhibit the binding of androgen receptor to its hormone-responsive DNA element and can inhibit androgen receptor and retinoic acid receptor transcriptional activities in vivo, as well as retinoic acid-induced neuronal differentiation. Thus, calreticulin can act as an important modulator of the regulation of gene transcription by nuclear hormone receptors. Systemic lupus erythematosus is associated with increased autoantibody titers against calreticulin but calreticulin is not a Ro/SS-A antigen. Earlier papers referred to calreticulin as an Ro/SS-A antigen but this was later disproven. Increased autoantibody titer against human calreticulin is found in infants with complete congenital heart block of both the IgG and IgM classes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CALR (Calreticulin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CALR include myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia, somatic and thrombocythemia 1. Among its related pathways are Disease and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and iron ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CANX.	Calcium-binding chaperone that promotes folding, oligomeric assembly and quality control in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) via the calreticulin/calnexin cycle. This lectin interacts transiently with almost all of the monoglucosylated glycoproteins that are synthesized in the ER. Interacts with the DNA-binding domain of NR3C1 and mediates its nuclear export. Involved in maternal gene expression regulation. May participate in oocyte maturation via the regulation of calcium homeostasis (By similarity).	same
CALY	The protein encoded by this gene is a type II single transmembrane protein. It is required for maximal stimulated calcium release after stimulation of purinergic or muscarinic but not beta-adrenergic receptors. The encoded protein interacts with D1 dopamine receptor and may interact with other DA receptor subtypes and/or GPCRs. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CALY (Calcyon Neuron-Specific Vesicular Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CALY include schizophrenia. Among its related pathways are Circadian entrainment. GO annotations related to this gene include clathrin light chain binding. An important paralog of this gene is HMP19.	Interacts with clathrin light chain A and stimulates clathrin self-assembly and clathrin-mediated endocytosis.	same
CAMSAP1	empty	CAMSAP1 (Calmodulin Regulated Spectrin-Associated Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include microtubule binding. An important paralog of this gene is CAMSAP2.	Probable microtubule-binding protein that plays a role in the regulation of cell morphology and cytoskeletal organization. Through interaction with spectrin may regulate neurite outgrowth.	same
CAP1	The protein encoded by this gene is related to the S. cerevisiae CAP protein, which is involved in the cyclic AMP pathway. The human protein is able to interact with other molecules of the same protein, as well as with CAP2 and actin. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CAP1 (CAP, Adenylate Cyclase-Associated Protein 1 (Yeast)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CAP1 include herpes simplex encephalitis 3. Among its related pathways are L1CAM interactions and Hemostasis. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding. An important paralog of this gene is CAP2.	Directly regulates filament dynamics and has been implicated in a number of complex developmental and morphological processes, including mRNA localization and the establishment of cell polarity	same
CAPN11	Calpains constitute a family of intracellular calcium-dependent cysteine proteases. There are eight members in this superfamily. They consist of a variable 80 kDa subunit and an invariant 30 kDa subunit. This calpain protein appears to have protease activity and calcium-binding ability. A similar mouse protein may play a functional role in spermatogenesis and in the regulation of calcium-dependent signal transduction events during meiosis. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]	CAPN11 (Calpain 11) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and Apoptosis Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and calcium-dependent cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CAPN9.	Calcium-regulated non-lysosomal thiol-protease which catalyzes limited proteolysis of substrates involved in cytoskeletal remodeling and signal transduction	same
CAPN10	Calpains represent a ubiquitous, well-conserved family of calcium-dependent cysteine proteases. The calpain proteins are heterodimers consisting of an invariant small subunit and variable large subunits. The large catalytic subunit has four domains: domain I, the N-terminal regulatory domain that is processed upon calpain activation; domain II, the protease domain; domain III, a linker domain of unknown function; and domain IV, the calmodulin-like calcium-binding domain. This gene encodes a large subunit. It is an atypical calpain in that it lacks the calmodulin-like calcium-binding domain and instead has a divergent C-terminal domain. It is similar in organization to calpains 5 and 6. This gene is associated with type 2 or non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM), and is located within the NIDDM1 region. Multiple alternative transcript variants have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]	CAPN10 (Calpain 10) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CAPN10 include diabetes mellitus, noninsulin-dependent 1 and polycystic ovary syndrome. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and Apoptosis Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include cytoskeletal protein binding and SNARE binding. An important paralog of this gene is CAPN9.	Calcium-regulated non-lysosomal thiol-protease which catalyze limited proteolysis of substrates involved in cytoskeletal remodeling and signal transduction. May play a role in insulin-stimulated glucose uptake.	same
CANX	This gene encodes a member of the calnexin family of molecular chaperones. The encoded protein is a calcium-binding, endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-associated protein that interacts transiently with newly synthesized N-linked glycoproteins, facilitating protein folding and assembly. It may also play a central role in the quality control of protein folding by retaining incorrectly folded protein subunits within the ER for degradation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CANX (Calnexin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CANX include orbital melanoma. Among its related pathways are Disease and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and apolipoprotein binding. An important paralog of this gene is CALR.	Calcium-binding protein that interacts with newly synthesized glycoproteins in the endoplasmic reticulum. It may act in assisting protein assembly and/or in the retention within the ER of unassembled protein subunits. It seems to play a major role in the quality control apparatus of the ER by the retention of incorrectly folded proteins. Associated with partial T-cell antigen receptor complexes that escape the ER of immature thymocytes, it may function as a signaling complex regulating thymocyte maturation. Additionally it may play a role in receptor-mediated endocytosis at the synapse	same
CAP2	This gene was identified by its similarity to the gene for human adenylyl cyclase-associated protein. The function of the protein encoded by this gene is unknown. However, the protein appears to be able to interact with adenylyl cyclase-associated protein and actin. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CAP2 (CAP, Adenylate Cyclase-Associated Protein, 2 (Yeast)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are L1CAM interactions and Hemostasis. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding. An important paralog of this gene is CAP1.	May have a regulatory bifunctional role	same
CAPN12	The calpains, calcium-activated neutral proteases, are nonlysosomal, intracellular cysteine proteases. The mammalian calpains include ubiquitous, stomach-specific, and muscle-specific proteins. The ubiquitous enzymes consist of heterodimers with distinct large, catalytic subunits associated with a common small, regulatory subunit. This gene encodes a member of the calpain large subunit family. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]	CAPN12 (Calpain 12) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Apoptosis Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and calcium-dependent cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CAPN9.	Calcium-regulated non-lysosomal thiol-protease.	same
CAMTA1	empty	CAMTA1 (Calmodulin Binding Transcription Activator 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CAMTA1 include cerebellar ataxia, nonprogressive, with mental retardation and histiocytoid hemangioma. An important paralog of this gene is CAMTA2.	Transcriptional activator. May act as a tumor suppressor.	same
CAPN13	The calpains, calcium-activated neutral proteases, are nonlysosomal, intracellular cysteine proteases. The mammalian calpains include ubiquitous, stomach-specific, and muscle-specific proteins. The ubiquitous enzymes consist of heterodimers with distinct large, catalytic subunits associated with a common small, regulatory subunit. This gene encodes a member of the calpain large subunit family. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]	CAPN13 (Calpain 13) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Apoptosis Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and calcium-dependent cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CAPN9.	Probable non-lysosomal thiol-protease.	same
CANT1	This protein encoded by this gene belongs to the apyrase family. It functions as a calcium-dependent nucleotidase with a preference for UDP. Mutations in this gene are associated with Desbuquois dysplasia with hand anomalies. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been noted for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]	CANT1 (Calcium Activated Nucleotidase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CANT1 include desbuquois dysplasia and dwarfism. Among its related pathways are Purine metabolism (KEGG) and TNF Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and uridine-diphosphatase activity.	Calcium-dependent nucleotidase with a preference for UDP. The order of activity with different substrates is UDP > GDP > UTP > GTP. Has very low activity towards ADP and even lower activity towards ATP. Does not hydrolyze AMP and GMP. Involved in proteoglycan synthesis.	same
CAMSAP1L1	empty	CAMSAP2 (Calmodulin Regulated Spectrin-Associated Protein Family, Member 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include microtubule binding. An important paralog of this gene is CAMSAP3.	Microtubule minus-end binding protein that may regulate the organization of non-centrosomal microtubules. May regulate the nucleation and the polymerization of microtubules. Indirectly, through the microtubule cytoskeleton, may regulate the organization of cellular organelles including the Golgi and the early endosomes.	diff
CAPG	This gene encodes a member of the gelsolin/villin family of actin-regulatory proteins. The encoded protein reversibly blocks the barbed ends of F-actin filaments in a Ca2+ and phosphoinositide-regulated manner, but does not sever preformed actin filaments. By capping the barbed ends of actin filaments, the encoded protein contributes to the control of actin-based motility in non-muscle cells. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]	CAPG (Capping Protein (Actin Filament), Gelsolin-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding. An important paralog of this gene is AVIL.	Calcium-sensitive protein which reversibly blocks the barbed ends of actin filaments but does not sever preformed actin filaments. May play an important role in macrophage function. May play a role in regulating cytoplasmic and/or nuclear structures through potential interactions with actin. May bind DNA	same
CAMTA2	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the calmodulin-binding transcription activator protein family. Members of this family share a common domain structure that consists of a transcription activation domain, a DNA-binding domain, and a calmodulin-binding domain. The encoded protein may be a transcriptional coactivator of genes involved in cardiac growth. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]	CAMTA2 (Calmodulin Binding Transcription Activator 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CAMTA2 include muscle hypertrophy. GO annotations related to this gene include chromatin binding and histone deacetylase binding. An important paralog of this gene is CAMTA1.	Transcription activator. May act as tumor suppressor.	same
CAPN5	Calpains are calcium-dependent cysteine proteases involved in signal transduction in a variety of cellular processes. A functional calpain protein consists of an invariant small subunit and 1 of a family of large subunits. CAPN5 is one of the large subunits. Unlike some of the calpains, CAPN5 and CAPN6 lack a calmodulin-like domain IV. Because of the significant similarity to Caenorhabditis elegans sex determination gene tra-3, CAPN5 is also called as HTRA3. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CAPN5 (Calpain 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CAPN5 include vitreoretinopathy, neovascular inflammatory. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and Apoptosis Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium-dependent cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CAPN9.	empty	same
CAPN3	Calpain, a heterodimer consisting of a large and a small subunit, is a major intracellular protease, although its function has not been well established. This gene encodes a muscle-specific member of the calpain large subunit family that specifically binds to titin. Mutations in this gene are associated with limb-girdle muscular dystrophies type 2A. Alternate promoters and alternative splicing result in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms and some variants are ubiquitously expressed. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CAPN3 (Calpain 3, (P94)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CAPN3 include muscular dystrophy, limb-girdle, type 2a and calpainopathy. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and Apoptosis Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and cysteine-type peptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CAPN9.	Calcium-regulated non-lysosomal thiol-protease	same
CAPN2	The calpains, calcium-activated neutral proteases, are nonlysosomal, intracellular cysteine proteases. The mammalian calpains include ubiquitous, stomach-specific, and muscle-specific proteins. The ubiquitous enzymes consist of heterodimers with distinct large, catalytic subunits associated with a common small, regulatory subunit. This gene encodes the large subunit of the ubiquitous enzyme, calpain 2. Multiple heterogeneous transcriptional start sites in the 5' UTR have been reported. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]	CAPN2 (Calpain 2, (M/II) Large Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and Apoptosis Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and cysteine-type peptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CAPN9.	Calcium-regulated non-lysosomal thiol-protease which catalyze limited proteolysis of substrates involved in cytoskeletal remodeling and signal transduction. Proteolytically cleaves MYOC at Arg-226 (PubMed:17650508).	same
CAPN6	Calpains are ubiquitous, well-conserved family of calcium-dependent, cysteine proteases. The calpain proteins are heterodimers consisting of an invariant small subunit and variable large subunits. The large subunit possesses a cysteine protease domain, and both subunits possess calcium-binding domains. Calpains have been implicated in neurodegenerative processes, as their activation can be triggered by calcium influx and oxidative stress. The protein encoded by this gene is highly expressed in the placenta. Its C-terminal region lacks any homology to the calmodulin-like domain of other calpains. The protein lacks critical active site residues and thus is suggested to be proteolytically inactive. The protein may play a role in tumor formation by inhibiting apoptosis and promoting angiogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]	CAPN6 (Calpain 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and Apoptosis Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include microtubule binding and calcium-dependent cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CAPN9.	Microtubule-stabilizing protein that may be involved in the regulation of microtubule dynamics and cytoskeletal organization. May act as a regulator of RAC1 activity through interaction with ARHGEF2 to control lamellipodial formation and cell mobility. Does not seem to have protease activity as it has lost the active site residues (By similarity).	same
CAPN1	The calpains, calcium-activated neutral proteases, are nonlysosomal, intracellular cysteine proteases. The mammalian calpains include ubiquitous, stomach-specific, and muscle-specific proteins. The ubiquitous enzymes consist of heterodimers with distinct large, catalytic subunits associated with a common small, regulatory subunit. This gene encodes the large subunit of the ubiquitous enzyme, calpain 1. Several transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]	CAPN1 (Calpain 1, (Mu/I) Large Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CAPN1 include meningothelial meningioma. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and Apoptosis Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and calcium-dependent cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CAPN9.	Calcium-regulated non-lysosomal thiol-protease which catalyze limited proteolysis of substrates involved in cytoskeletal remodeling and signal transduction	same
CAND1	empty	CAND1 (Cullin-Associated And Neddylation-Dissociated 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Protein Stability. GO annotations related to this gene include TBP-class protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is CAND2.	Key assembly factor of SCF (SKP1-CUL1-F-box protein) E3 ubiquitin ligase complexes that promotes the exchange of the substrate-recognition F-box subunit in SCF complexes, thereby playing a key role in the cellular repertoire of SCF complexes. Acts as a F-box protein exchange factor. The exchange activity of CAND1 is coupled with cycles of neddylation conjugation: in the deneddylated state, cullin-binding CAND1 binds CUL1-RBX1, increasing dissociation of the SCF complex and promoting exchange of the F-box protein. Probably plays a similar role in other cullin-RING E3 ubiquitin ligase complexes.	same
CAPN7	Calpains are ubiquitous, well-conserved family of calcium-dependent, cysteine proteases. The calpain proteins are heterodimers consisting of an invariant small subunit and variable large subunits. The large subunit possesses a cysteine protease domain, and both subunits possess calcium-binding domains. Calpains have been implicated in neurodegenerative processes, as their activation can be triggered by calcium influx and oxidative stress. The function of the protein encoded by this gene is not known. An orthologue has been found in mouse but it seems to diverge from other family members. The mouse orthologue is thought to be calcium independent with protease activity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CAPN7 (Calpain 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and Apoptosis Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium-dependent cysteine-type endopeptidase activity and MIT domain binding. An important paralog of this gene is CAPN15.	Calcium-regulated non-lysosomal thiol-protease.	same
CAND2	empty	CAND2 (Cullin-Associated And Neddylation-Dissociated 2 (Putative)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include TBP-class protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is CAND1.	Probable assembly factor of SCF (SKP1-CUL1-F-box protein) E3 ubiquitin ligase complexes that promotes the exchange of the substrate-recognition F-box subunit in SCF complexes, thereby playing a key role in the cellular repertoire of SCF complexes.	same
CAPN14	Calpains are a family of cytosolic calcium-activated cysteine proteases involved in a variety of cellular processes including apoptosis, cell division, modulation of integrin-cytoskeletal interactions, and synaptic plasticity (Dear et al., 2000 [PubMed 10964513]). CAPN14 belongs to the calpain large subunit family.[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CAPN14 (Calpain 14) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Apoptosis Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and calcium-dependent cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CAPN9.	Calcium-regulated non-lysosomal thiol-protease.	same
CAPN9	Calpains are ubiquitous, well-conserved family of calcium-dependent, cysteine proteases. The calpain proteins are heterodimers consisting of an invariant small subunit and variable large subunits. The large subunit possesses a cysteine protease domain, and both subunits possess calcium-binding domains. Calpains have been implicated in neurodegenerative processes, as their activation can be triggered by calcium influx and oxidative stress. The protein encoded by this gene is expressed predominantly in stomach and small intestine and may have specialized functions in the digestive tract. This gene is thought to be associated with gastric cancer. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CAPN9 (Calpain 9) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and Apoptosis Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and calcium-dependent cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CAPNS2.	Calcium-regulated non-lysosomal thiol-protease	same
CAPNS1	This gene is a member of the calpain small subunit family. Calpains are calcium-dependent cysteine proteinases that are widely distributed in mammalian cells. Calpains operate as heterodimers, comprising a specific large catalytic subunit (calpain 1 subunit in Calpain I, and calpain 2 subunit in Calpain II), and a common small regulatory subunit encoded by this gene. This encoded protein is essential for the stability and function of both calpain heterodimers, whose proteolytic activities influence various cellular functions including apoptosis, proliferation, migration, adhesion, and autophagy. Calpains have been implicated in neurodegenerative processes, such as myotonic dystrophy. A pseudogene of this gene has been defined on chromosome 1. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014]	CAPNS1 (Calpain, Small Subunit 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CAPNS1 include chronic neutrophilic leukemia. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and Degradation of the extracellular matrix. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and calcium-dependent cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CAPN9.	Regulatory subunit of the calcium-regulated non-lysosomal thiol-protease which catalyzes limited proteolysis of substrates involved in cytoskeletal remodeling and signal transduction	same
CAPNS2	empty	CAPNS2 (Calpain, Small Subunit 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CAPNS2 include traumatic brain injury and malaria. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CAPN9.	Calcium-regulated non-lysosomal thiol-protease which catalyzes limited proteolysis of substrates involved in cytoskeletal remodeling and signal transduction. This small subunit may act as a tissue-specific chaperone of the large subunit, possibly by helping it fold into its correct conformation for activity	same
CAPRIN1	empty	CAPRIN1 (Cell Cycle Associated Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CAPRIN1 include japanese encephalitis. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is C1QL4.	May regulate the transport and translation of mRNAs of proteins involved in synaptic plasticity in neurons and cell proliferation and migration in multiple cell types.	same
CAPS2	Calcyphosine-2 is a calcium-binding protein with 2 EF-hand motifs (Wang et al., 2002 [PubMed 11846421]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CAPS2 (Calcyphosine 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CAPS2 include alexithymia. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CAPS.	empty	same
CAPRIN2	The protein encoded by this gene may be involved in the transitioning of erythroblasts from a highly proliferative state to a terminal phase of differentiation. High level expression of the encoded protein can lead to apoptosis. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]	CAPRIN2 (Caprin Family Member 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and receptor binding. An important paralog of this gene is C1QL4.	May regulate the transport and translation of mRNAs, modulating for instance the expression of proteins involved in synaptic plasticity in neurons. Involved in regulation of growth as erythroblasts shift from a highly proliferative state towards their terminal phase of differentiation. May be involved in apoptosis.	same
CAPZA1	CAPZA1 is a member of the F-actin capping protein alpha subunit family. This gene encodes the alpha subunit of the barbed-end actin binding protein. The protein regulates growth of the actin filament by capping the barbed end of growing actin filaments. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CAPZA1 (Capping Protein (Actin Filament) Muscle Z-Line, Alpha 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Hemostasis and Advanced glycosylation endproduct receptor signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding. An important paralog of this gene is CAPZA3.	F-actin-capping proteins bind in a Ca(2+)-independent manner to the fast growing ends of actin filaments (barbed end) thereby blocking the exchange of subunits at these ends. Unlike other capping proteins (such as gelsolin and severin), these proteins do not sever actin filaments	same
CAPSL	empty	CAPSL (Calcyphosine-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CAPSL include primary biliary cirrhosis. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CAPS.	empty	same
CAPZA3	This gene encodes an actin capping protein, one of the F-actin capping protein alpha subunit family. The encoded protein is predominantly localized to the neck region of ejaculated sperm, other immunohistochemical signals were found in the tail and postacrosomal regions. The encoded protein may also form heterodimers of alpha and beta subunits. This protein may be important in determining sperm architecture and male fertility. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CAPZA3 (Capping Protein (Actin Filament) Muscle Z-Line, Alpha 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cytoskeleton remodeling Neurofilaments and Cell cycle_Spindle assembly and chromosome separation. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding. An important paralog of this gene is CAPZA1.	F-actin-capping proteins bind in a Ca(2+)-independent manner to the fast growing ends of actin filaments (barbed end) thereby blocking the exchange of subunits at these ends. Unlike other capping proteins (such as gelsolin and severin), these proteins do not sever actin filaments. May play a role in the morphogenesis of spermatid (By similarity).	same
CAPZB	This gene encodes the beta subunit of the barbed-end actin binding protein, which belongs to the F-actin capping protein family. The capping protein is a heterodimeric actin capping protein that blocks actin filament assembly and disassembly at the fast growing (barbed) filament ends and functions in regulating actin filament dynamics as well as in stabilizing actin filament lengths in muscle and nonmuscle cells. A pseudogene of this gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 2. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2013]	CAPZB (Capping Protein (Actin Filament) Muscle Z-Line, Beta) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Hemostasis and Factors involved in megakaryocyte development and platelet production. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding and beta-tubulin binding.	F-actin-capping proteins bind in a Ca(2+)-independent manner to the fast growing ends of actin filaments (barbed end) thereby blocking the exchange of subunits at these ends. Unlike other capping proteins (such as gelsolin and severin), these proteins do not sever actin filaments. Plays a role in the regulation of cell morphology and cytoskeletal organization.	same
CAPZA2	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the F-actin capping protein alpha subunit family. It is the alpha subunit of the barbed-end actin binding protein Cap Z. By capping the barbed end of actin filaments, Cap Z regulates the growth of the actin filaments at the barbed end. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CAPZA2 (Capping Protein (Actin Filament) Muscle Z-Line, Alpha 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Hemostasis and Advanced glycosylation endproduct receptor signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding. An important paralog of this gene is CAPZA1.	F-actin-capping proteins bind in a Ca(2+)-independent manner to the fast growing ends of actin filaments (barbed end) thereby blocking the exchange of subunits at these ends. Unlike other capping proteins (such as gelsolin and severin), these proteins do not sever actin filaments	same
CARD16	empty	CARD16 (Caspase Recruitment Domain Family, Member 16) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CARD16 include hodgkin lymphoma. GO annotations related to this gene include cysteine-type endopeptidase activity and cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CARD18.	Caspase inhibitor. Acts as a regulator of procaspase-1/CASP1 activation implicated in the regulation of the proteolytic maturation of pro-interleukin-1 beta (IL1B) and its release during inflammation. Inhibits the release of IL1B in response to LPS in monocytes. Also induces NF-kappa-B activation during the pro-inflammatory cytokine response. Also able to inhibit CASP1-mediated neuronal cell death, TNF-alpha, hypoxia-, UV-, and staurosporine-mediated cell death but not ER stress-mediated cell death. Acts by preventing activation of caspases CASP1 and CASP4, possibly by preventing the interaction between CASP1 and RIPK2.	same
CARD10	The caspase recruitment domain (CARD) is a protein module that consists of 6 or 7 antiparallel alpha helices. It participates in apoptosis signaling through highly specific protein-protein homophilic interactions. Like several other CARD proteins, CARD10 belongs to the membrane-associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) family and activates NF-kappa-B (NFKB; see MIM 164011) through BCL10 (MIM 603517) (Wang et al., 2001 [PubMed 11259443]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CARD10 (Caspase Recruitment Domain Family, Member 10) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are NF-KappaB Family Pathway and GPCR Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor signaling complex scaffold activity. An important paralog of this gene is CARD11.	Activates NF-kappa-B via BCL10 and IKK	same
CARD9	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the CARD protein family, which is defined by the presence of a characteristic caspase-associated recruitment domain (CARD). CARD is a protein interaction domain known to participate in activation or suppression of CARD containing members of the caspase family, and thus plays an important regulatory role in cell apoptosis. This protein was identified by its selective association with the CARD domain of BCL10, a postive regulator of apoptosis and NF-kappaB activation, and is thought to function as a molecular scaffold for the assembly of a BCL10 signaling complex that activates NF-kappaB. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed, but their full-length nature is not clearly defined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CARD9 (Caspase Recruitment Domain Family, Member 9) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CARD9 include candidiasis, familial, 2, autosomal recessive and deep dermatophytosis. Among its related pathways are NOD-like Receptor Signaling Pathways and Tuberculosis. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and CARD domain binding. An important paralog of this gene is CARD11.	Adapter protein that plays a key role in innate immune response to a number of intracellular pathogens, such as C.albicans and L.monocytogenes. Is at the crossroads of ITAM-tyrosine kinase and the Toll-like receptors (TLR) and NOD2 signaling pathways. Probably controls various innate immune response pathways depending on the intracellular pathogen. In response to L.monocytogenes infection, acts by connecting NOD2 recognition of peptidoglycan to downstream activation of MAP kinases (MAPK) without activating NF-kappa-B. Also involved in activation of myeloid cells via classical ITAM-associated receptors and TLR: required for TLR-mediated activation of MAPK, while it is not required for TLR-induced activation of NF-kappa-B (By similarity). Controls CLEC7A (dectin-1)-mediated myeloid cell activation induced by the yeast cell wall component zymosan, leading to cytokine production and innate anti-fungal immunity: acts by regulating BCL10-MALT1-mediated NF-kappa-B activation pathway. Activates NF-kappa-B via BCL10. In response to the hyphal form of C.albicans, mediates CLEC6A (dectin-2)-induced I-kappa-B kinase ubiquitination, leading to NF-kappa-B activation via interaction with BCL10. In response to fungal infection, may be required for the development and subsequent differentiation of interleukin 17-producing T helper (TH-17) cells.	same
CAPS	This gene encodes a calcium-binding protein, which may play a role in the regulation of ion transport. A similar protein was first described as a potentially important regulatory protein in the dog thyroid and was termed as R2D5 antigen in rabbit. Alternative splicing of this gene generates two transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CAPS (Calcyphosine) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CAPS2.	Calcium-binding protein. May play a role in cellular signaling events (Potential).	same
CARD18	empty	CARD18 (Caspase Recruitment Domain Family, Member 18) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Nucleotide-binding domain, leucine rich repeat containing receptor (NLR) signaling pathways. GO annotations related to this gene include cysteine-type endopeptidase activity and cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CARD16.	Inhibits generation of IL-1-beta by interacting with caspase-1 and preventing its association with RIP2. Down-regulates the release of IL1B.	same
CARD11	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the membrane-associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) family, a class of proteins that functions as molecular scaffolds for the assembly of multiprotein complexes at specialized regions of the plasma membrane. This protein is also a member of the CARD protein family, which is defined by carrying a characteristic caspase-associated recruitment domain (CARD). This protein has a domain structure similar to that of CARD14 protein. The CARD domains of both proteins have been shown to specifically interact with BCL10, a protein known to function as a positive regulator of cell apoptosis and NF-kappaB activation. When expressed in cells, this protein activated NF-kappaB and induced the phosphorylation of BCL10. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CARD11 (Caspase Recruitment Domain Family, Member 11) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CARD11 include persistent polyclonal b-cell lymphocytosis and immunodeficiency 11. Among its related pathways are PI-3K cascade and Downstream Signaling Events Of B Cell Receptor (BCR). GO annotations related to this gene include guanylate kinase activity and CARD domain binding. An important paralog of this gene is CARD10.	Involved in the costimulatory signal essential for T-cell receptor (TCR)-mediated T-cell activation. Its binding to DPP4 induces T-cell proliferation and NF-kappa-B activation in a T-cell receptor/CD3-dependent manner. Activates NF-kappa-B via BCL10 and IKK. Stimulates the phosphorylation of BCL10	same
CARHSP1	empty	CARHSP1 (Calcium Regulated Heat Stable Protein 1, 24kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include phosphatase binding and mRNA 3-UTR binding. An important paralog of this gene is CSDC2.	Binds mRNA and regulates the stability of target mRNA. Binds single-stranded DNA (in vitro).	same
CARD6	This gene encodes a protein that contains a caspase recruitment domain (CARD), an antiparallel six-helical bundle that mediates homotypic protein-protein interactions. The encoded protein is a microtubule-associated protein that has been shown to interact with receptor-interacting protein kinases and positively modulate signal transduction pathways converging on activation of the inducible transcription factor NF-kB. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CARD6 (Caspase Recruitment Domain Family, Member 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Nucleotide-binding domain, leucine rich repeat containing receptor (NLR) signaling pathways and Nucleotide-binding domain, leucine rich repeat containing receptor (NLR) signaling pathways. An important paralog of this gene is URGCP.	May be involved in apoptosis	same
CARD14	This gene encodes a caspase recruitment domain-containing protein that is a member of the membrane-associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) family of proteins. Members of this protein family are scaffold proteins that are involved in a diverse array of cellular processes including cellular adhesion, signal transduction and cell polarity control. This protein has been shown to specifically interact with BCL10, a protein known to function as a positive regulator of cell apoptosis and NF-kappaB activation. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]	CARD14 (Caspase Recruitment Domain Family, Member 14) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CARD14 include psoriasis 2 and pityriasis rubra pilaris. Among its related pathways are NF-KappaB Family Pathway and TCR Signaling (Qiagen). GO annotations related to this gene include CARD domain binding. An important paralog of this gene is CARD11.	Plays a role in signaling mediated by TRAF2, TRAF3 and TRAF6 and protects cells against apoptosis. Activates NF-kappa-B via BCL10 and IKK. Stimulates the phosphorylation of BCL10.	same
CARNS1	CARNS1 (EC 6.3.2.11), a member of the ATP-grasp family of ATPases, catalyzes the formation of carnosine (beta-alanyl-L-histidine) and homocarnosine (gamma-aminobutyryl-L-histidine), which are found mainly in skeletal muscle and the central nervous system, respectively (Drozak et al., 2010 [PubMed 20097752]).[supplied by OMIM, Apr 2010]	CARNS1 (Carnosine Synthase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Arginine and proline metabolism and beta-Alanine metabolism (KEGG). GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase activity and carnosine synthase activity.	Catalyzes the synthesis of carnosine and homocarnosine. Carnosine is synthesized more efficiently than homocarnosine.	same
CARD17	empty	CARD17 (Caspase Recruitment Domain Family, Member 17) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CARD17 include shigellosis. Among its related pathways are Interferon Signaling and Signaling by Interleukins. GO annotations related to this gene include cysteine-type endopeptidase activity and cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CARD18.	Regulator of procaspase-1/CASP1 activation implicated in the regulation of the proteolytic maturation of pro-IL-1beta/IL1B and its release during inflammation. Inhibits the release of IL1B in response to LPS in monocytes. However, unlike CASP1, do not induce NF-kappa-B activation.	same
CARM1	This gene belongs to the protein arginine methyltransferase (PRMT) family. The encoded enzyme catalyzes the methylation of guanidino nitrogens of arginyl residues of proteins. The enzyme acts specifically on histones and other chromatin-associated proteins and is involved in regulation of gene expression. The enzyme may act in association with other proteins or within multi-protein complexes and may play a role in cell type-specific functions and cell lineage specification. A related pseudogene is located on chromosome 9. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2013]	CARM1 (Coactivator-Associated Arginine Methyltransferase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CARM1 include breast cancer. Among its related pathways are L1CAM interactions and Apoptotic Pathways in Synovial Fibroblasts. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and transcription regulatory region DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is PRMT6.	Methylates (mono- and asymmetric dimethylation) the guanidino nitrogens of arginyl residues in several proteins involved in DNA packaging, transcription regulation, pre-mRNA splicing, and mRNA stability. Recruited to promoters upon gene activation together with histone acetyltransferases from EP300/P300 and p160 families, methylates histone H3 at Arg-17 (H3R17me), forming mainly asymmetric dimethylarginine (H3R17me2a), leading to activate transcription via chromatin remodeling. During nuclear hormone receptor activation and TCF7L2/TCF4 activation, acts synergically with EP300/P300 and either one of the p160 histone acetyltransferases NCOA1/SRC1, NCOA2/GRIP1 and NCOA3/ACTR or CTNNB1/beta-catenin to activate transcription. During myogenic transcriptional activation, acts together with NCOA3/ACTR as a coactivator for MEF2C. During monocyte inflammatory stimulation, acts together with EP300/P300 as a coactivator for NF-kappa-B. Acts as coactivator for PPARG, promotes adipocyte differentiation and the accumulation of brown fat tissue. Plays a role in the regulation of pre-mRNA alternative splicing by methylation of splicing factors. Also seems to be involved in p53/TP53 transcriptional activation. Methylates EP300/P300, both at Arg-2142, which may loosen its interaction with NCOA2/GRIP1, and at Arg-580 and Arg-604 in the KIX domain, which impairs its interaction with CREB and inhibits CREB-dependent transcriptional activation. Also methylates arginine residues in RNA-binding proteins PABPC1, ELAVL1 and ELAV4, which may affect their mRNA-stabilizing properties and the half-life of their target mRNAs.	same
CASC2	empty	CASC2 (Cancer Susceptibility Candidate 2 (Non-Protein Coding)) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class.	May act as a potential tumor suppressor.	same
CARS	This gene encodes a class 1 aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase, cysteinyl-tRNA synthetase. Each of the twenty aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases catalyzes the aminoacylation of a specific tRNA or tRNA isoaccepting family with the cognate amino acid. This gene is one of several located near the imprinted gene domain on chromosome 11p15.5, an important tumor-suppressor gene region. Alterations in this region have been associated with Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome, Wilms tumor, rhabdomyosarcoma, adrenocortical carcinoma, and lung, ovarian and breast cancers. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]	CARS (Cysteinyl-TRNA Synthetase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CARS include inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor and childhood disintegrative disease. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and tRNA Aminoacylation. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and cysteine-tRNA ligase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CARS2.	empty	same
CASC1	empty	CASC1 (Cancer Susceptibility Candidate 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CASC1 include lung adenoma and adenoma.	empty	same
CASC3	The product of this gene is a core component of the exon junction complex (EJC), a protein complex that is deposited on spliced mRNAs at exon-exon junctions and functions in nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD). The encoded protein binds RNA and interacts with two other EJC core components. It is predominantly located in the cytoplasm, but shuttles into the nucleus where it localizes to nuclear speckles. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CASC3 (Cancer Susceptibility Candidate 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and RNA transport. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and enzyme binding.	Core component of the splicing-dependent multiprotein exon junction complex (EJC) deposited at splice junctions on mRNAs. The EJC is a dynamic structure consisting of core proteins and several peripheral nuclear and cytoplasmic associated factors that join the complex only transiently either during EJC assembly or during subsequent mRNA metabolism. The EJC marks the position of the exon-exon junction in the mature mRNA for the gene expression machinery and the core components remain bound to spliced mRNAs throughout all stages of mRNA metabolism thereby influencing downstream processes including nuclear mRNA export, subcellular mRNA localization, translation efficiency and nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD). Stimulates the ATPase and RNA-helicase activities of EIF4A3. Plays a role in the stress response by participating in cytoplasmic stress granules assembly and by favoring cell recovery following stress. Component of the dendritic ribonucleoprotein particles (RNPs) in hippocampal neurons. May play a role in mRNA transport. Binds spliced mRNA in sequence-independent manner, 20-24 nucleotides upstream of mRNA exon-exon junctions. Binds poly(G) and poly(U) RNA homopolymer.	same
CASC5	The protein encoded by this gene is a component of the multiprotein assembly that is required for creation of kinetochore-microtubule attachments and chromosome segregation. The encoded protein functions as a scaffold for proteins that influence the spindle assembly checkpoint during the eukaryotic cell cycle and it interacts with at least five different kinetochore proteins and two checkpoint kinases. In adults, this gene is predominantly expressed in normal testes, various cancer cell lines and primary tumors from other tissues and is ubiquitously expressed in fetal tissues. This gene was originally identified as a fusion partner with the mixed-lineage leukemia (MLL) gene in t(11;15)(q23;q14). Mutations in this gene cause autosomal recessive primary microcephaly-4 (MCPH4). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. Additional splice variants have been described but their biological validity has not been confirmed. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]	CASC5 (Cancer Susceptibility Candidate 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CASC5 include microcephaly 4, primary, autosomal recessive and median neuropathy. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic.	Performs two crucial functions during mitosis: it is essential for spindle-assembly checkpoint signaling and for correct chromosome alignment. Required for attachment of the kinetochores to the spindle microtubules. Directly links BUB1 and BUB1B to kinetochores. Part of the MIS12 complex, which may be fundamental for kinetochore formation and proper chromosome segregation during mitosis. Acts in coordination with CENPK to recruit the NDC80 complex to the outer kinetochore.	same
CARTPT	This gene encodes a secreted protein which is processed by prohormone/proprotein convertases to produce smaller, biologically active peptides. Expression of the transcript for this gene is regulated by certain drugs such as cocaine, and the encoded protein is thought to be involved in the regulation of appetite and stress. Mutations in this gene are associated with susceptibility to obesity.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]	CARTPT (CART Prepropeptide) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CARTPT include obesity, susceptibility to, cartpt-related and anus cancer.	Satiety factor closely associated with the actions of leptin and neuropeptide y; this anorectic peptide inhibits both normal and starvation-induced feeding and completely blocks the feeding response induced by neuropeptide Y and regulated by leptin in the hypothalamus. It promotes neuronal development and survival in vitro.	same
CARKD	empty	CARKD (Carbohydrate Kinase Domain Containing) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include ATP-dependent NAD(P)H-hydrate dehydratase activity.	Catalyzes the dehydration of the S-form of NAD(P)HX at the expense of ATP, which is converted to ADP. Together with NAD(P)HX epimerase, which catalyzes the epimerization of the S- and R-forms, the enzyme allows the repair of both epimers of NAD(P)HX, a damaged form of NAD(P)H that is a result of enzymatic or heat-dependent hydration.	same
CARD8	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the caspase recruitment domain (CARD)-containing family of proteins, which are involved in pathways leading to activation of caspases or nuclear factor kappa-B (NFKB). This protein may be a component of the inflammasome, a protein complex that plays a role in the activation of proinflammatory caspases. It is thought that this protein acts as an adaptor molecule that negatively regulates NFKB activation, CASP1-dependent IL1B secretion, and apoptosis. Polymorphisms in this gene may be associated with a susceptibility to rheumatoid arthritis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	CARD8 (Caspase Recruitment Domain Family, Member 8) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CARD8 include masters-allen syndrome and rheumatoid arthritis. Among its related pathways are Nucleotide-binding domain, leucine rich repeat containing receptor (NLR) signaling pathways and Nucleotide-binding domain, leucine rich repeat containing receptor (NLR) signaling pathways. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and NACHT domain binding. An important paralog of this gene is NLRX1.	Inhibits NF-kappa-B activation. May participate in a regulatory mechanism that coordinates cellular responses controlled by NF-kappa-B transcription factor. May be a component of the inflammasome, a protein complex which also includes PYCARD, NALP2 and CASP1 and whose function would be the activation of proinflammatory caspases	same
CASP12	Caspases are cysteine proteases that cleave C-terminal aspartic acid residues on their substrate molecules. This gene is most highly related to members of the ICE subfamily of caspases that process inflammatory cytokines. In rodents, the homolog of this gene mediates apoptosis in response to endoplasmic reticulum stress. However, in humans this gene contains a polymorphism for the presence or absence of a premature stop codon. The majority of human individuals have the premature stop codon and produce a truncated non-functional protein. The read-through codon occurs primarily in individuals of African descent and carriers have endotoxin hypo-responsiveness and an increased susceptibility to severe sepsis. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been noted for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]	CASP12 (Caspase 12 (Gene/Pseudogene)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CASP12 include prion disease and myocardial infarction. Among its related pathways are Apoptotic Pathways in Synovial Fibroblasts and Apoptosis Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CASP1.	Has no protease activity. May reduce cytokine release in response to bacterial lipopolysaccharide during infections. Reduces activation of NF-kappa-B in response to TNF.	same
CASP10	This gene encodes a protein which is a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase) family. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central role in the execution-phase of cell apoptosis. Caspases exist as inactive proenzymes which undergo proteolytic processing at conserved aspartic residues to produce two subunits, large and small, that dimerize to form the active enzyme. This protein cleaves and activates caspases 3 and 7, and the protein itself is processed by caspase 8. Mutations in this gene are associated with type IIA autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome, non-Hodgkin lymphoma and gastric cancer. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2011]	CASP10 (Caspase 10, Apoptosis-Related Cysteine Peptidase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CASP10 include autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome, type ii and casp10-related autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome. Among its related pathways are RhoGDI Pathway and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CASP1.	Involved in the activation cascade of caspases responsible for apoptosis execution. Recruited to both Fas- and TNFR-1 receptors in a FADD dependent manner. May participate in the granzyme B apoptotic pathways. Cleaves and activates caspase-3, -4, -6, -7, -8, and -9. Hydrolyzes the small- molecule substrates, Tyr-Val-Ala-Asp- -AMC and Asp-Glu-Val-Asp- -AMC.	same
CASP14	This gene encodes a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase) family. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central role in the execution-phase of cell apoptosis. Caspases exist as inactive proenzymes which undergo proteolytic processing at conserved aspartic residues to produce two subunits, large and small, that dimerize to form the active enzyme. This caspase has been shown to be processed and activated by caspase 8 and caspase 10 in vitro, and by anti-Fas agonist antibody or TNF-related apoptosis inducing ligand in vivo. The expression and processing of this caspase may be involved in keratinocyte terminal differentiation, which is important for the formation of the skin barrier. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CASP14 (Caspase 14, Apoptosis-Related Cysteine Peptidase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CASP14 include plasma cell neoplasm and myocardial infarction. Among its related pathways are EGFR Signaling Pathway and Apoptosis and Autophagy. GO annotations related to this gene include cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CASP1.	Non-apoptotic caspase involved in epidermal differentiation. Is the predominant caspase in epidermal stratum corneum (PubMed:15556625). Seems to play a role in keratinocyte differentiation and is required for cornification. Regulates maturation of the epidermis by proteolytically processing filaggrin (By similarity). In vitro has a preference for the substate [WY]-X-X-D motif and is active on the synthetic caspase substrate WEHD-ACF (PubMed:16854378, PubMed:19960512). Involved in processing of prosaposin in the epidermis (By similarity). May be involved in retinal pigment epithelium cell barrier function (PubMed:25121097). Involved in DNA degradation in differentiated keratinocytes probably by cleaving DFFA/ICAD leading to liberation of DFFB/CAD (PubMed:24743736).	same
CASKIN2	This gene encodes a large protein that contains six ankyrin repeats, as well as a Src homology 3 (SH3) domain and two sterile alpha motif (SAM) domains, which may be involved in protein-protein interactions. The C-terminal portion of this protein is proline-rich and contains a conserved region. A related protein interacts with calcium/calmodulin-dependent serine protein kinase (CASK). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2013]	CASKIN2 (CASK Interacting Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ANKS1A.	empty	same
CASP1	This gene encodes a protein which is a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase) family. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central role in the execution-phase of cell apoptosis. Caspases exist as inactive proenzymes which undergo proteolytic processing at conserved aspartic residues to produce 2 subunits, large and small, that dimerize to form the active enzyme. This gene was identified by its ability to proteolytically cleave and activate the inactive precursor of interleukin-1, a cytokine involved in the processes such as inflammation, septic shock, and wound healing. This gene has been shown to induce cell apoptosis and may function in various developmental stages. Studies of a similar gene in mouse suggest a role in the pathogenesis of Huntington disease. Alternative splicing results in transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]	CASP1 (Caspase 1, Apoptosis-Related Cysteine Peptidase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CASP1 include shigellosis and cowpox. Among its related pathways are PAK Pathway and Apoptotic Pathways in Synovial Fibroblasts. GO annotations related to this gene include cysteine-type endopeptidase activity and cysteine-type endopeptidase activator activity involved in apoptotic process. An important paralog of this gene is CASP2.	Thiol protease that cleaves IL-1 beta between an Asp and an Ala, releasing the mature cytokine which is involved in a variety of inflammatory processes. Important for defense against pathogens. Cleaves and activates sterol regulatory element binding proteins (SREBPs). Can also promote apoptosis.	same
CASP3	This gene encodes a protein which is a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase) family. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central role in the execution-phase of cell apoptosis. Caspases exist as inactive proenzymes which undergo proteolytic processing at conserved aspartic residues to produce two subunits, large and small, that dimerize to form the active enzyme. This protein cleaves and activates caspases 6, 7 and 9, and the protein itself is processed by caspases 8, 9 and 10. It is the predominant caspase involved in the cleavage of amyloid-beta 4A precursor protein, which is associated with neuronal death in Alzheimer's disease. Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants that encode the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CASP3 (Caspase 3, Apoptosis-Related Cysteine Peptidase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CASP3 include nervous system cancer and cerebral hypoxia. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and MAPK signaling pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include peptidase activity and cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CASP1.	Involved in the activation cascade of caspases responsible for apoptosis execution. At the onset of apoptosis it proteolytically cleaves poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) at a 216-Asp- -Gly-217 bond. Cleaves and activates sterol regulatory element binding proteins (SREBPs) between the basic helix-loop-helix leucine zipper domain and the membrane attachment domain. Cleaves and activates caspase-6, -7 and -9. Involved in the cleavage of huntingtin. Triggers cell adhesion in sympathetic neurons through RET cleavage.	same
CASP2	This gene encodes a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase) family. Caspases mediate cellular apoptosis through the proteolytic cleavage of specific protein substrates. The encoded protein may function in stress-induced cell death pathways, cell cycle maintenance, and the suppression of tumorigenesis. Increased expression of this gene may play a role in neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer's disease, Huntington's disease and temporal lobe epilepsy. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]	CASP2 (Caspase 2, Apoptosis-Related Cysteine Peptidase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CASP2 include temporal lobe epilepsy and retinal ischemia. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include enzyme binding and cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CASP1.	Involved in the activation cascade of caspases responsible for apoptosis execution. Might function by either activating some proteins required for cell death or inactivating proteins necessary for cell survival	same
CASP5	This gene encodes a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase) family. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central role in the execution-phase of cell apoptosis. Caspases exist as inactive proenzymes which undergo proteolytic processing at conserved aspartic residues to produce two subunits, large and small, that dimerize to form the active enzyme. Overexpression of the active form of this enzyme induces apoptosis in fibroblasts. Max, a central component of the Myc/Max/Mad transcription regulation network important for cell growth, differentiation, and apoptosis, is cleaved by this protein; this process requires Fas-mediated dephosphorylation of Max. The expression of this gene is regulated by interferon-gamma and lipopolysaccharide. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]	CASP5 (Caspase 5, Apoptosis-Related Cysteine Peptidase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CASP5 include cowpox and myocardial infarction. Among its related pathways are PAK Pathway and Apoptotic Pathways in Synovial Fibroblasts. GO annotations related to this gene include cysteine-type peptidase activity and cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CASP1.	Mediator of programmed cell death (apoptosis)	same
CASKIN1	empty	CASKIN1 (CASK Interacting Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ANKS1A.	May link the scaffolding protein CASK to downstream intracellular effectors.	same
CASP8AP2	This protein is highly similar to FLASH, a mouse apoptotic protein identified by its interaction with the death-effector domain (DED) of caspase 8. Studies of FLASH protein suggested that this protein may be a component of the death-inducing signaling complex that includes Fas receptor, Fas-binding adapter FADD, and caspase 8, and plays a regulatory role in Fas-mediated apoptosis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]	CASP8AP2 (Caspase 8 Associated Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are TWEAK Pathway and TNF-alpha/NF-kB Signaling Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include transcription corepressor activity and death receptor binding.	Participates in TNF-alpha-induced blockade of glucocorticoid receptor (GR) transactivation at the nuclear receptor coactivator level, upstream and independently of NF-kappa-B. Suppresses both NCOA2- and NCOA3-induced enhancement of GR transactivation. Involved in TNF-alpha-induced activation of NF-kappa-B via a TRAF2-dependent pathway. Acts as a downstream mediator for CASP8-induced activation of NF-kappa-B. Required for the activation of CASP8 in FAS-mediated apoptosis. Required for histone gene transcription and progression through S phase.	same
CASP6	This gene encodes a protein which is a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase) family. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central role in the execution-phase of cell apoptosis. Caspases exist as inactive proenzymes which undergo proteolytic processing at conserved aspartic residues to produce two subunits, large and small, that dimerize to form the active enzyme. This protein is processed by caspases 7, 8 and 10, and is thought to function as a downstream enzyme in the caspase activation cascade. Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants that encode different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CASP6 (Caspase 6, Apoptosis-Related Cysteine Peptidase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CASP6 include thoracic cancer and myocardial infarction. Among its related pathways are Akt Signaling and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CASP1.	Involved in the activation cascade of caspases responsible for apoptosis execution. Cleaves poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase in vitro, as well as lamins. Overexpression promotes programmed cell death	same
CASC4	The increased expression level of this gene is associated with HER-2/neu proto-oncogene overexpression. Amplification and resulting overexpression of this proto-oncogene are found in approximately 30% of human breast and 20% of human ovarian cancers. Alternatively spliced variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]	CASC4 (Cancer Susceptibility Candidate 4) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is GOLM1.	empty	same
CARS2	This gene encodes a putative member of the class I family of aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases. These enzymes play a critical role in protein biosynthesis by charging tRNAs with their cognate amino acids. This protein is encoded by the nuclear genome but is likely to be imported to the mitochondrion where it is thought to catalyze the ligation of cysteine to tRNA molecules. A splice-site mutation in this gene has been associated with a novel progressive myoclonic epilepsy disease with similar symptoms to MERRF syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2015]	CARS2 (Cysteinyl-TRNA Synthetase 2, Mitochondrial (Putative)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and tRNA Aminoacylation. GO annotations related to this gene include cysteine-tRNA ligase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CARS.	empty	same
CASP7	This gene encodes a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase) family. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central role in the execution-phase of cell apoptosis. Caspases exist as inactive proenzymes which undergo proteolytic processing at conserved aspartic residues to produce two subunits, large and small, that dimerize to form the active enzyme. The precursor of the encoded protein is cleaved by caspase 3 and 10, is activated upon cell death stimuli and induces apoptosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]	CASP7 (Caspase 7, Apoptosis-Related Cysteine Peptidase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CASP7 include gastrointestinal lymphoma and myocardial infarction. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and PAK Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include cysteine-type peptidase activity and aspartic-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CASP1.	Involved in the activation cascade of caspases responsible for apoptosis execution. Cleaves and activates sterol regulatory element binding proteins (SREBPs). Proteolytically cleaves poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) at a 216-Asp- -Gly-217 bond. Overexpression promotes programmed cell death	same
CASD1	empty	CASD1 (CAS1 Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CASD1 include brachydactyly-syndactyly syndrome.	empty	same
CASQ1	This gene encodes the skeletal muscle specific member of the calsequestrin protein family. Calsequestrin functions as a luminal sarcoplasmic reticulum calcium sensor in both cardiac and skeletal muscle cells. This protein, also known as calmitine, functions as a calcium regulator in the mitochondria of skeletal muscle. This protein is absent in patients with Duchenne and Becker types of muscular dystrophy. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2013]	CASQ1 (Calsequestrin 1 (Fast-Twitch, Skeletal Muscle)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CASQ1 include myopathy due to calsequestrin and serca1 protein overload and gas gangrene. Among its related pathways are Myometrial Relaxation and Contraction Pathways and Antiarrhythmic Pathway, Pharmacodynamics. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CASQ2.	Calsequestrin is a high-capacity, moderate affinity, calcium-binding protein and thus acts as an internal calcium store in muscle. Calcium ions are bound by clusters of acidic residues at the protein surface, often at the interface between subunits. Can bind around 80 Ca(2+) ions. Regulates the release of lumenal Ca(2+) via the calcium release channel RYR1; this plays an important role in triggering muscle contraction.	same
CASP8	This gene encodes a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase) family. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central role in the execution-phase of cell apoptosis. Caspases exist as inactive proenzymes composed of a prodomain, a large protease subunit, and a small protease subunit. Activation of caspases requires proteolytic processing at conserved internal aspartic residues to generate a heterodimeric enzyme consisting of the large and small subunits. This protein is involved in the programmed cell death induced by Fas and various apoptotic stimuli. The N-terminal FADD-like death effector domain of this protein suggests that it may interact with Fas-interacting protein FADD. This protein was detected in the insoluble fraction of the affected brain region from Huntington disease patients but not in those from normal controls, which implicated the role in neurodegenerative diseases. Many alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described, although not all variants have had their full-length sequences determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CASP8 (Caspase 8, Apoptosis-Related Cysteine Peptidase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CASP8 include autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome, type iib and autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome with recurrent viral infections. Among its related pathways are Pathways in cancer and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include cysteine-type peptidase activity and cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CASP1.	Most upstream protease of the activation cascade of caspases responsible for the TNFRSF6/FAS mediated and TNFRSF1A induced cell death. Binding to the adapter molecule FADD recruits it to either receptor. The resulting aggregate called death-inducing signaling complex (DISC) performs CASP8 proteolytic activation. The active dimeric enzyme is then liberated from the DISC and free to activate downstream apoptotic proteases. Proteolytic fragments of the N-terminal propeptide (termed CAP3, CAP5 and CAP6) are likely retained in the DISC. Cleaves and activates CASP3, CASP4, CASP6, CASP7, CASP9 and CASP10. May participate in the GZMB apoptotic pathways. Cleaves ADPRT. Hydrolyzes the small-molecule substrate, Ac-Asp-Glu-Val-Asp- -AMC. Likely target for the cowpox virus CRMA death inhibitory protein. Isoform 5, isoform 6, isoform 7 and isoform 8 lack the catalytic site and may interfere with the pro-apoptotic activity of the complex.	same
CASP9	This gene encodes a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase) family. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central role in the execution-phase of cell apoptosis. Caspases exist as inactive proenzymes which undergo proteolytic processing at conserved aspartic residues to produce two subunits, large and small, that dimerize to form the active enzyme. This protein can undergo autoproteolytic processing and activation by the apoptosome, a protein complex of cytochrome c and the apoptotic peptidase activating factor 1; this step is thought to be one of the earliest in the caspase activation cascade. This protein is thought to play a central role in apoptosis and to be a tumor suppressor. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2013]	CASP9 (Caspase 9, Apoptosis-Related Cysteine Peptidase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CASP9 include cerebral hypoxia and thoracic cancer. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and PI-3K cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and peptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CASP1.	Involved in the activation cascade of caspases responsible for apoptosis execution. Binding of caspase-9 to Apaf-1 leads to activation of the protease which then cleaves and activates caspase-3. Promotes DNA damage-induced apoptosis in a ABL1/c-Abl-dependent manner. Proteolytically cleaves poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP)	same
CASQ2	The protein encoded by this gene specifies the cardiac muscle family member of the calsequestrin family. Calsequestrin is localized to the sarcoplasmic reticulum in cardiac and slow skeletal muscle cells. The protein is a calcium binding protein that stores calcium for muscle function. Mutations in this gene cause stress-induced polymorphic ventricular tachycardia, also referred to as catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia 2 (CPVT2), a disease characterized by bidirectional ventricular tachycardia that may lead to cardiac arrest. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CASQ2 (Calsequestrin 2 (Cardiac Muscle)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CASQ2 include ventricular tachycardia, catecholaminergic polymorphic, 2 and catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia. Among its related pathways are Myometrial Relaxation and Contraction Pathways and Antiarrhythmic Pathway, Pharmacodynamics. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and protein homodimerization activity. An important paralog of this gene is CASQ1.	Calsequestrin is a high-capacity, moderate affinity, calcium-binding protein and thus acts as an internal calcium store in muscle. Calcium ions are bound by clusters of acidic residues at the protein surface, especially at the interface between subunits. Can bind around 60 Ca(2+) ions. Regulates the release of lumenal Ca(2+) via the calcium release channel RYR2; this plays an important role in triggering muscle contraction. Plays a role in excitation-contraction coupling in the heart and in regulating the rate of heart beats.	same
CASR	The protein encoded by this gene is a G protein-coupled receptor that is expressed in the parathyroid hormone (PTH)-producing chief cells of the parathyroid gland, and the cells lining the kidney tubule. It senses small changes in circulating calcium concentration and couples this information to intracellular signaling pathways that modify PTH secretion or renal cation handling, thus this protein plays an essential role in maintaining mineral ion homeostasis. Mutations in this gene cause familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia, familial, isolated hypoparathyroidism, and neonatal severe primary hyperparathyroidism. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CASR (Calcium-Sensing Receptor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CASR include hyperparathyroidism, neonatal and hypocalcemia, autosomal dominant. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include G-protein coupled receptor activity and phosphatidylinositol phospholipase C activity.	Senses changes in the extracellular concentration of calcium ions. The activity of this receptor is mediated by a G-protein that activates a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system	same
CATSPER2P1	Catsper genes belong to a family of putative cation channels that are specific to spermatozoa and localize to the flagellum. This gene is part of a tandem repeat on chromosome 15q15; this copy of the gene is thought to be a pseudogene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]	CATSPER2P1 (Cation Channel, Sperm Associated 2 Pseudogene 1) is a Pseudogene.	empty	same
CASP4	This gene encodes a protein that is a member of the cysteine-aspartic acid protease (caspase) family. Sequential activation of caspases plays a central role in the execution-phase of cell apoptosis. Caspases exist as inactive proenzymes composed of a prodomain and a large and small protease subunit. Activation of caspases requires proteolytic processing at conserved internal aspartic residues to generate a heterodimeric enzyme consisting of the large and small subunits. This caspase is able to cleave and activate its own precursor protein, as well as caspase 1 precursor. When overexpressed, this gene induces cell apoptosis. Alternative splicing results in transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CASP4 (Caspase 4, Apoptosis-Related Cysteine Peptidase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CASP4 include myocardial infarction. Among its related pathways are PAK Pathway and Apoptotic Pathways in Synovial Fibroblasts. GO annotations related to this gene include cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CASP1.	Involved in the activation cascade of caspases responsible for apoptosis execution. Involved in ER-stress induced apoptosis. Cleaves caspase-1.	same
CASS4	empty	CASS4 (Cas Scaffolding Protein Family Member 4) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include phosphorelay sensor kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is NEDD9.	Docking protein that plays a role in tyrosine kinase-based signaling related to cell adhesion and cell spreading. Regulates PTK2/FAK1 activity, focal adhesion integrity, and cell spreading.	same
CATSPER1	Calcium ions play a primary role in the regulation of sperm motility. This gene belongs to a family of putative cation channels that are specific to spermatozoa and localize to the flagellum. The protein family features a single repeat with six membrane-spanning segments and a predicted calcium-selective pore region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CATSPER1 (Cation Channel, Sperm Associated 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CATSPER1 include spermatogenic failure 7 and catsper-related male infertility. Among its related pathways are Sweet Taste Signaling and Reproduction. GO annotations related to this gene include voltage-gated calcium channel activity.	Voltage-gated calcium channel that plays a central role in calcium-dependent physiological responses essential for successful fertilization, such as sperm hyperactivation, acrosome reaction and chemotaxis towards the oocyte. Activated by extracellular progesterone and prostaglandins following the sequence: progesterone > PGF1-alpha = PGE1 > PGA1 > PGE2 >> PGD2. The primary effect of progesterone activation is to shift voltage dependence towards more physiological, negative membrane potentials; it is not mediated by metabotropic receptors and second messengers. Sperm capacitation enhances the effect of progesterone by providing additional negative shift. Also activated by the elevation of intracellular pH.	same
CATSPER3	empty	CATSPER3 (Cation Channel, Sperm Associated 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Reproduction and Reproduction. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium channel activity and calcium activated cation channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CATSPER4.	Voltage-gated calcium channel that plays a central role in calcium-dependent physiological responses essential for successful fertilization, such as sperm hyperactivation, acrosome reaction and chemotaxis towards the oocyte. Activated by extracellular progesterone and prostaglandins following the sequence: progesterone > PGF1-alpha = PGE1 > PGA1 > PGE2 >> PGD2. The primary effect of progesterone activation is to shift voltage dependence towards more physiological, negative membrane potentials; it is not mediated by metabotropic receptors and second messengers. Sperm capacitation enhances the effect of progesterone by providing additional negative shift. Also activated by the elevation of intracellular pH.	same
CAST	The protein encoded by this gene is an endogenous calpain (calcium-dependent cysteine protease) inhibitor. It consists of an N-terminal domain L and four repetitive calpain-inhibition domains (domains 1-4), and it is involved in the proteolysis of amyloid precursor protein. The calpain/calpastatin system is involved in numerous membrane fusion events, such as neural vesicle exocytosis and platelet and red-cell aggregation. The encoded protein is also thought to affect the expression levels of genes encoding structural or regulatory proteins. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	CAST (Calpastatin) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Neuroscience and DREAM Repression and Dynorphin Expression. GO annotations related to this gene include endopeptidase inhibitor activity and cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity.	Specific inhibition of calpain (calcium-dependent cysteine protease). Plays a key role in postmortem tenderization of meat and have been proposed to be involved in muscle protein degradation in living tissue	same
CASZ1	The protein encoded by this gene is a zinc finger transcription factor. The encoded protein may function as a tumor suppressor, and single nucleotide polymorphisms in this gene are associated with blood pressure variation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]	CASZ1 (Castor Zinc Finger 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	Transcription factor involved in vascular assembly and morphogenesis through direct transcriptional regulation of EGFL7.	same
CATSPERB	empty	CATSPERB (Catsper Channel Auxiliary Subunit Beta) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Reproduction and Reproduction.	Probably involved in sperm cell hyperactivation via its association with CATSPER1. Sperm cell hyperactivation is needed for sperm motility which is essential late in the preparation of sperm for fertilization (By similarity).	same
CATSPER2	Calcium ions play a primary role in the regulation of sperm motility. This gene belongs to a family of putative cation channels that are specific to spermatozoa and localize to the flagellum. The protein family features a single repeat with six membrane-spanning segments and a predicted calcium-selective pore region. This gene is part of a tandem repeat on chromosome 15q15; the second copy of this gene is thought to be a pseudogene. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2014]	CATSPER2 (Cation Channel, Sperm Associated 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CATSPER2 include deafness-infertility syndrome and catsper-related male infertility. Among its related pathways are Sweet Taste Signaling and Reproduction. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium channel activity and voltage-gated ion channel activity.	Voltage-gated calcium channel that plays a central role in calcium-dependent physiological responses essential for successful fertilization, such as sperm hyperactivation, acrosome reaction and chemotaxis towards the oocyte. Activated by extracellular progesterone and prostaglandins following the sequence: progesterone > PGF1-alpha = PGE1 > PGA1 > PGE2 >> PGD2. The primary effect of progesterone activation is to shift voltage dependence towards more physiological, negative membrane potentials; it is not mediated by metabotropic receptors and second messengers. Sperm capacitation enhances the effect of progesterone by providing additional negative shift. Also activated by the elevation of intracellular pH.	same
CASK	This gene encodes a calcium/calmodulin-dependent serine protein kinase. The encoded protein is a MAGUK (membrane-associated guanylate kinase) protein family member. These proteins are scaffold proteins and the encoded protein is located at synapses in the brain. Mutations in this gene are associated with FG syndrome 4, mental retardation and microcephaly with pontine and cerebellar hypoplasia, and a form of X-linked mental retardation. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]	CASK (Calcium/Calmodulin-Dependent Serine Protein Kinase (MAGUK Family)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CASK include mental retardation and microcephaly with pontine and cerebellar hypoplasia and fg syndrome 4. Among its related pathways are Degradation of the extracellular matrix and Non-integrin membrane-ECM interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and neurexin family protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is MPP6.	Multidomain scaffolding protein with a role in synaptic transmembrane protein anchoring and ion channel trafficking. Contributes to neural development and regulation of gene expression via interaction with the transcription factor TBR1. Binds to cell-surface proteins, including amyloid precursor protein, neurexins and syndecans. May mediate a link between the extracellular matrix and the actin cytoskeleton via its interaction with syndecan and with the actin/spectrin-binding protein 4.1	same
CATSPER4	empty	CATSPER4 (Cation Channel, Sperm Associated 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Reproduction and Reproduction. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium channel activity and calcium activated cation channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CATSPER3.	Voltage-gated calcium channel that plays a central role in calcium-dependent physiological responses essential for successful fertilization, such as sperm hyperactivation, acrosome reaction and chemotaxis towards the oocyte. Activated by extracellular progesterone and prostaglandins following the sequence: progesterone > PGF1-alpha = PGE1 > PGA1 > PGE2 >> PGD2. The primary effect of progesterone activation is to shift voltage dependence towards more physiological, negative membrane potentials; it is not mediated by metabotropic receptors and second messengers. Sperm capacitation enhances the effect of progesterone by providing additional negative shift. Also activated by the elevation of intracellular pH.	same
CBARA1	This gene encodes an essential regulator of mitochondrial Ca2+ uptake under basal conditions. The encoded protein interacts with the mitochondrial calcium uniporter, a mitochondrial inner membrane Ca2+ channel, and is essential in preventing mitochondrial Ca2+ overload, which can cause excessive production of reactive oxygen species and cell stress. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2013]	MICU1 (Mitochondrial Calcium Uptake 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with MICU1 include myopathy with extrapyramidal signs and proximal myopathy with extrapyramidal signs. Among its related pathways are Ca, cAMP and Lipid Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is MICU3.	Key regulator of mitochondrial calcium uniporter (MCU) required to increase calcium uptake by MCU when cytoplasmic calcium is high. MICU1 and MICU2 form a disulfide-linked heterodimer that stimulate and inhibit MCU activity, respectively. MICU1 acts as a stimulator of MCU that senses calcium level via its EF-hand domains: enhances MCU opening at high Ca(2+) concentration, allowing a rapid response of mitochondria to Ca(2+) signals generated in the cytoplasm. Regulates glucose-dependent insulin secretion in pancreatic beta-cells by regulating mitochondrial calcium uptake. Induces T-helper 1-mediated autoreactivity, which is accompanied by the release of IFNG.	diff
CAV3	This gene encodes a caveolin family member, which functions as a component of the caveolae plasma membranes found in most cell types. Caveolin proteins are proposed to be scaffolding proteins for organizing and concentrating certain caveolin-interacting molecules. Mutations identified in this gene lead to interference with protein oligomerization or intra-cellular routing, disrupting caveolae formation and resulting in Limb-Girdle muscular dystrophy type-1C (LGMD-1C), hyperCKemia or rippling muscle disease (RMD). Alternative splicing has been identified for this locus, with inclusion or exclusion of a differentially spliced intron. In addition, transcripts utilize multiple polyA sites and contain two potential translation initiation sites. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CAV3 (Caveolin 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CAV3 include rippling muscle disease and creatine phosphokinase, elevated serum. Among its related pathways are Proteoglycans in cancer and Endocytosis. GO annotations related to this gene include protein C-terminus binding and ion channel binding. An important paralog of this gene is CAV1.	May act as a scaffolding protein within caveolar membranes. Interacts directly with G-protein alpha subunits and can functionally regulate their activity. May also regulate voltage-gated potassium channels. Plays a role in the sarcolemma repair mechanism of both skeletal muscle and cardiomyocytes that permits rapid resealing of membranes disrupted by mechanical stress	same
CBFA2T2	In acute myeloid leukemia, especially in the M2 subtype, the t(8;21)(q22;q22) translocation is one of the most frequent karyotypic abnormalities. The translocation produces a chimeric gene made up of the 5'-region of the RUNX1 (AML1) gene fused to the 3'-region of the CBFA2T1 (MTG8) gene. The chimeric protein is thought to associate with the nuclear corepressor/histone deacetylase complex to block hematopoietic differentiation. The protein encoded by this gene binds to the AML1-MTG8 complex and may be important in promoting leukemogenesis. Several transcript variants are thought to exist for this gene, but the full-length natures of only three have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CBFA2T2 (Core-Binding Factor, Runt Domain, Alpha Subunit 2; Translocated To, 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CBFA2T2 include myeloid leukemia. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and transcription corepressor activity. An important paralog of this gene is RUNX1T1.	May function as a complex with the chimeric protein RUNX1/AML1-CBFA2T1/MTG8 which is produced in acute myeloid leukemia with the chromosomal translocation t(8;21). May thus be involved in the repression of AML1-dependent transcription and the induction of G-CSF/CSF3-dependent cell growth. May be a tumor suppressor gene candidate involved in myeloid tumors with the deletion of the 20q11 region	same
CAV2	The protein encoded by this gene is a major component of the inner surface of caveolae, small invaginations of the plasma membrane, and is involved in essential cellular functions, including signal transduction, lipid metabolism, cellular growth control and apoptosis. This protein may function as a tumor suppressor. This gene and related family member (CAV1) are located next to each other on chromosome 7, and express colocalizing proteins that form a stable hetero-oligomeric complex. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene. Additional isoforms resulting from the use of alternate in-frame translation initiation codons have also been described, and shown to have preferential localization in the cell (PMID:11238462). [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]	CAV2 (Caveolin 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CAV2 include prostate cancer. Among its related pathways are Proteoglycans in cancer and Endocytosis. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and phosphoprotein binding. An important paralog of this gene is CAV1.	May act as a scaffolding protein within caveolar membranes. Interacts directly with G-protein alpha subunits and can functionally regulate their activity. Acts as an accessory protein in conjunction with CAV1 in targeting to lipid rafts and driving caveolae formation. The Ser-36 phosphorylated form has a role in modulating mitosis in endothelial cells. Positive regulator of cellular mitogenesis of the MAPK signaling pathway. Required for the insulin-stimulated nuclear translocation and activation of MAPK1 and STAT3, and the subsequent regulation of cell cycle progression (By similarity).	same
CAT	This gene encodes catalase, a key antioxidant enzyme in the bodies defense against oxidative stress. Catalase is a heme enzyme that is present in the peroxisome of nearly all aerobic cells. Catalase converts the reactive oxygen species hydrogen peroxide to water and oxygen and thereby mitigates the toxic effects of hydrogen peroxide. Oxidative stress is hypothesized to play a role in the development of many chronic or late-onset diseases such as diabetes, asthma, Alzheimer's disease, systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, and cancers. Polymorphisms in this gene have been associated with decreases in catalase activity but, to date, acatalasemia is the only disease known to be caused by this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]	CAT (Catalase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CAT include acatalasemia and pityriasis versicolor. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Glucose / Energy Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and enzyme binding.	Occurs in almost all aerobically respiring organisms and serves to protect cells from the toxic effects of hydrogen peroxide. Promotes growth of cells including T-cells, B-cells, myeloid leukemia cells, melanoma cells, mastocytoma cells and normal and transformed fibroblast cells.	same
CBLB	empty	CBLB (Cbl Proto-Oncogene B, E3 Ubiquitin Protein Ligase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CBLB include cannabis dependence. Among its related pathways are Proteoglycans in cancer and Downstream Signaling Events Of B Cell Receptor (BCR). GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and signal transducer activity. An important paralog of this gene is CBLC.	E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase which accepts ubiquitin from specific E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes, and transfers it to substrates, generally promoting their degradation by the proteasome. Negatively regulates TCR (T-cell receptor), BCR (B-cell receptor) and FCER1 (high affinity immunoglobulin epsilon receptor) signal transduction pathways. In naive T-cells, inhibits VAV1 activation upon TCR engagement and imposes a requirement for CD28 costimulation for proliferation and IL-2 production. Also acts by promoting PIK3R1/p85 ubiquitination, which impairs its recruitment to the TCR and subsequent activation. In activated T-cells, inhibits PLCG1 activation and calcium mobilization upon restimulation and promotes anergy. In B-cells, acts by ubiquitinating SYK and promoting its proteasomal degradation. Slightly promotes SRC ubiquitination. May be involved in EGFR ubiquitination and internalization. May be functionally coupled with the E2 ubiquitin-protein ligase UB2D3.	same
CAV1	The scaffolding protein encoded by this gene is the main component of the caveolae plasma membranes found in most cell types. The protein links integrin subunits to the tyrosine kinase FYN, an initiating step in coupling integrins to the Ras-ERK pathway and promoting cell cycle progression. The gene is a tumor suppressor gene candidate and a negative regulator of the Ras-p42/44 mitogen-activated kinase cascade. Caveolin 1 and caveolin 2 are located next to each other on chromosome 7 and express colocalizing proteins that form a stable hetero-oligomeric complex. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Berardinelli-Seip congenital lipodystrophy. Alternatively spliced transcripts encode alpha and beta isoforms of caveolin 1.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]	CAV1 (Caveolin 1, Caveolae Protein, 22kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CAV1 include lipodystrophy, congenital generalized, type 3 and pulmonary hypertension, primary, 3. Among its related pathways are Proteoglycans in cancer and Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and structural molecule activity. An important paralog of this gene is CAV2.	May act as a scaffolding protein within caveolar membranes. Interacts directly with G-protein alpha subunits and can functionally regulate their activity (By similarity). Involved in the costimulatory signal essential for T-cell receptor (TCR)-mediated T-cell activation. Its binding to DPP4 induces T-cell proliferation and NF-kappa-B activation in a T-cell receptor/CD3-dependent manner. Recruits CTNNB1 to caveolar membranes and may regulate CTNNB1-mediated signaling through the Wnt pathway.	same
CBLL1	This gene encodes an E3 ubiquitin-ligase for the E-cadherin complex and mediates its ubiquitination, endocytosis, and degradation in the lysosomes. The encoded protein contains a RING-finger domain and is also thought to have a role in control of cell proliferation. A related pseudogene has been identified on chromosome X. Alternative splicing results in a non-coding transcript variant. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	CBLL1 (Cbl Proto-Oncogene-Like 1, E3 Ubiquitin Protein Ligase) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Remodeling of Adherens Junctions. GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin-protein transferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ZNF645.	Promotes ubiquitination of several tyrosine-phosphorylated Src substrates, including CDH1, CTTN and DOK1. Targets CDH1 for endocytosis and degradation (By similarity).	same
CATSPERG	CATSPERG is a subunit of the CATSPER (see CATSPER1; MIM 606389) sperm calcium channel, which is required for sperm hyperactivated motility and male fertility (Wang et al., 2009 [PubMed 19516020]).[supplied by OMIM, Jul 2010]	CATSPERG (Catsper Channel Auxiliary Subunit Gamma) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Reproduction and Reproduction.	Probably involved in sperm cell hyperactivation via its association with CATSPER1. Sperm cell hyperactivation is needed for sperm motility which is essential late in the preparation of sperm for fertilization (By similarity).	same
CBR1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the short-chain dehydrogenases/reductases (SDR) family, which function as NADPH-dependent oxidoreductases having wide specificity for carbonyl compounds, such as quinones, prostaglandins, and various xenobiotics. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2013]	CBR1 (Carbonyl Reductase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CBR1 include lung cancer. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include oxidoreductase activity, acting on NAD(P)H, quinone or similar compound as acceptor and 15-hydroxyprostaglandin dehydrogenase (NADP+) activity. An important paralog of this gene is CBR3.	NADPH-dependent reductase with broad substrate specificity. Catalyzes the reduction of a wide variety of carbonyl compounds including quinones, prostaglandins, menadione, plus various xenobiotics. Catalyzes the reduction of the antitumor anthracyclines doxorubicin and daunorubicin to the cardiotoxic compounds doxorubicinol and daunorubicinol. Can convert prostaglandin E2 to prostaglandin F2-alpha. Can bind glutathione, which explains its higher affinity for glutathione-conjugated substrates. Catalyzes the reduction of S-nitrosoglutathione.	same
CBLN4	This gene encodes a member of a family of small secreted proteins containing C1Q domains. Members of this family are involved in regulation of neurexin signalling during synapse development. The mouse homolog of the protein encoded by this gene competes with netrin to bind to the deleted in colorectal cancer receptor. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012]	CBLN4 (Cerebellin 4 Precursor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CBLN4 include colorectal cancer. An important paralog of this gene is C1QL4.	May be involved in synaptic functions in the CNS. May play a role in CBLN3 export from the endoplasmic reticulum and secretion (By similarity).	same
CBLC	This gene encodes a member of the Cbl family of E3 ubiquitin ligases. Cbl proteins play important roles in cell signaling through the ubiquitination and subsequent downregulation of tyrosine kinases. Expression of this gene may be restricted to epithelial cells, and alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]	CBLC (Cbl Proto-Oncogene C, E3 Ubiquitin Protein Ligase) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Proteoglycans in cancer and Pathways in cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and signal transducer activity. An important paralog of this gene is CBLB.	Acts as an E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase, which accepts ubiquitin from specific E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes, and then transfers it to substrates promoting their degradation by the proteasome. Functionally coupled with the E2 ubiquitin-protein ligases UB2D1, UB2D2 and UB2D3. Regulator of EGFR mediated signal transduction; upon EGF activation, ubiquitinates EGFR. Isoform 1, but not isoform 2, inhibits EGF stimulated MAPK1 activation. Promotes ubiquitination of SRC phosphorylated at Tyr-419. In collaboration with CD2AP may act as regulatory checkpoint for Ret signaling by modulating the rate of RET degradation after ligand activation; CD2AP converts it from an inhibitor to a promoter of RET degradation; the function limits the potency of GDNF on neuronal survival.	same
CBLN3	Members of the precerebellin family, such as CBLN3, contain a cerebellin motif (see CBLN1; MIM 600432) and a C-terminal C1q signature domain (see MIM 120550) that mediates trimeric assembly of atypical collagen complexes. However, precerebellins do not contain a collagen motif, suggesting that they are not conventional components of the extracellular matrix (Pang et al., 2000 [PubMed 10964938]).[supplied by OMIM, Aug 2009]	CBLN3 (Cerebellin 3 Precursor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CBLN3 include spinocerebellar degeneration and olivopontocerebellar atrophy. An important paralog of this gene is C1QL4.	May be involved in synaptic functions in the CNS.	same
CBR4	empty	CBR4 (Carbonyl Reductase 4) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include quinone binding and NAD(P)H dehydrogenase (quinone) activity. An important paralog of this gene is DECR2.	The heteroteramer with HSD17B8 has NADH-dependent 3-ketoacyl-acyl carrier protein reductase activity. May play a role in biosynthesis of fatty acids in mitochondria. The homotetramer may act as NADPH-dependent quinone reductase. Has broad substrate specificity and reduces 9,10-phenanthrenequinone, 1,4-benzoquinone and various other o-quinones and p-quinones (in vitro).	same
CBFA2T3	This gene encodes a member of the myeloid translocation gene family which interact with DNA-bound transcription factors and recruit a range of corepressors to facilitate transcriptional repression. The t(16;21)(q24;q22) translocation is one of the less common karyotypic abnormalities in acute myeloid leukemia. The translocation produces a chimeric gene made up of the 5'-region of the runt-related transcription factor 1 gene fused to the 3'-region of this gene. This gene is also a putative breast tumor suppressor. Alternative splicing results in transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]	CBFA2T3 (Core-Binding Factor, Runt Domain, Alpha Subunit 2; Translocated To, 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CBFA2T3 include acute megakaryoblastic leukemia without down syndrome and myeloid leukemia. Among its related pathways are ErbB4 signaling events. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and chromatin binding. An important paralog of this gene is RUNX1T1.	Functions as a transcriptional repressor. Regulates the proliferation and the differentiation of erythroid progenitors by repressing the expression of TAL1 target genes. Plays a role in granulocyte differentiation	same
CBLN2	empty	CBLN2 (Cerebellin 2 Precursor) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is C1QL4.	May play role in synaptogenesis induction.	same
CBWD2	empty	CBWD2 (COBW Domain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CBWD3.	empty	same
CBWD1	empty	CBWD1 (COBW Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CBWD3.	empty	same
CBX1	This gene encodes a highly conserved nonhistone protein, which is a member of the heterochromatin protein family . The protein is enriched in the heterochromatin and associated with centromeres. The protein has a single N-terminal chromodomain which can bind to histone proteins via methylated lysine residues, and a C-terminal chromo shadow-domain (CSD) which is responsible for the homodimerization and interaction with a number of chromatin-associated nonhistone proteins. The protein may play an important role in the epigenetic control of chromatin structure and gene expression. Several related pseudogenes are located on chromosomes 1, 3, and X. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CBX1 (Chromobox Homolog 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CBX1 include mandibuloacral dysplasia. Among its related pathways are Chromatin Regulation / Acetylation. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and enzyme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CBX5.	Component of heterochromatin. Recognizes and binds histone H3 tails methylated at Lys-9, leading to epigenetic repression. Interaction with lamin B receptor (LBR) can contribute to the association of the heterochromatin with the inner nuclear membrane	same
CBL	This gene is a proto-oncogene that encodes a RING finger E3 ubiquitin ligase. The encoded protein is one of the enzymes required for targeting substrates for degradation by the proteasome. This protein mediates the transfer of ubiquitin from ubiquitin conjugating enzymes (E2) to specific substrates. This protein also contains an N-terminal phosphotyrosine binding domain that allows it to interact with numerous tyrosine-phosphorylated substrates and target them for proteasome degradation. As such it functions as a negative regulator of many signal transduction pathways. This gene has been found to be mutated or translocated in many cancers including acute myeloid leukaemia. Mutations in this gene are also the cause of Noonan syndrome-like disorder. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]	CBL (Cbl Proto-Oncogene, E3 Ubiquitin Protein Ligase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CBL include noonan syndrome-like disorder with or without juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia and noonan syndrome-like disorder with juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia. Among its related pathways are PI-3K cascade and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and ubiquitin-protein transferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CBLB.	Adapter protein that functions as a negative regulator of many signaling pathways that are triggered by activation of cell surface receptors. Acts as an E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase, which accepts ubiquitin from specific E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes, and then transfers it to substrates promoting their degradation by the proteasome. Recognizes activated receptor tyrosine kinases, including KIT, FLT1, FGFR1, FGFR2, PDGFRA, PDGFRB, EGFR, CSF1R, EPHA8 and KDR and terminates signaling. Recognizes membrane-bound HCK, SRC and other kinases of the SRC family and mediates their ubiquitination and degradation. Participates in signal transduction in hematopoietic cells. Plays an important role in the regulation of osteoblast differentiation and apoptosis. Essential for osteoclastic bone resorption. The Tyr-731 phosphorylated form induces the activation and recruitment of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase to the cell membrane in a signaling pathway that is critical for osteoclast function. May be functionally coupled with the E2 ubiquitin-protein ligase UB2D3.	same
CBWD6	empty	CBWD6 (COBW Domain Containing 6) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CBWD3.	empty	same
CBWD5	empty	CBWD5 (COBW Domain Containing 5) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CBWD3.	empty	same
CBLN1	This gene encodes a cerebellum-specific precursor protein, precerebellin, with similarity to the globular (non-collagen-like) domain of complement component C1qB. Precerebellin is processed to give rise to several derivatives, including the hexadecapeptide, cerebellin, which is highly enriched in postsynaptic structures of Purkinje cells. Cerebellin has also been found in human and rat adrenals, where it has been shown to enhance the secretory activity of this gland. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]	CBLN1 (Cerebellin 1 Precursor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CBLN1 include benign paroxysmal positional nystagmus. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity. An important paralog of this gene is C1QL4.	Required for synapse integrity and synaptic plasticity. During cerebellar synapse formation, essential for the formation and maintenance of parallel fiber and Purkinje cell synapses. When parallel fibers make contact with Purkinje spines, CBLN1 interaction with GRID2 triggers the recruitment of NRXN1 and secretory vesicles to the sites of contact. NRXN1-CBLN1-GRID2 signaling induces presynaptic morphological changes, which may further accumulate pre- and postsynaptic components to promote bidirectional maturation of parallel fiber - Purkinje cell functionnally active synapses by a positive feedback mechanism. Required for CBLN3 export from the endoplasmic reticulum and secretion (By similarity).	same
CBFB	The protein encoded by this gene is the beta subunit of a heterodimeric core-binding transcription factor belonging to the PEBP2/CBF transcription factor family which master-regulates a host of genes specific to hematopoiesis (e.g., RUNX1) and osteogenesis (e.g., RUNX2). The beta subunit is a non-DNA binding regulatory subunit; it allosterically enhances DNA binding by alpha subunit as the complex binds to the core site of various enhancers and promoters, including murine leukemia virus, polyomavirus enhancer, T-cell receptor enhancers and GM-CSF promoters. Alternative splicing generates two mRNA variants, each encoding a distinct carboxyl terminus. In some cases, a pericentric inversion of chromosome 16 [inv(16)(p13q22)] produces a chimeric transcript consisting of the N terminus of core-binding factor beta in a fusion with the C-terminal portion of the smooth muscle myosin heavy chain 11. This chromosomal rearrangement is associated with acute myeloid leukemia of the M4Eo subtype. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CBFB (Core-Binding Factor, Beta Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CBFB include 'acute myeloid leukemia with abnormal bone marrow eosinophils inv(16)(p13q22) or t(16;16)(p13;q22)' and lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma. Among its related pathways are ATF-2 transcription factor network and Regulation of nuclear SMAD2/3 signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and transcription coactivator activity.	CBF binds to the core site, 5-PYGPYGGT-3, of a number of enhancers and promoters, including murine leukemia virus, polyomavirus enhancer, T-cell receptor enhancers, LCK, IL3 and GM-CSF promoters. CBFB enhances DNA binding by RUNX1	same
CBR3	Carbonyl reductase 3 catalyzes the reduction of a large number of biologically and pharmacologically active carbonyl compounds to their corresponding alcohols. The enzyme is classified as a monomeric NADPH-dependent oxidoreductase. CBR3 contains three exons spanning 11.2 kilobases and is closely linked to another carbonyl reductase gene - CBR1. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CBR3 (Carbonyl Reductase 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CBR3 include keloids and congestive heart failure. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Doxorubicin Pathway (Cardiomyocyte Cell), Pharmacodynamics. GO annotations related to this gene include NADPH binding and 3-keto sterol reductase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CBR1.	Has low NADPH-dependent oxidoreductase activity towards 4-benzoylpyridine and menadione (in vitro).	same
CBWD3	empty	CBWD3 (COBW Domain Containing 3) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CBWD7.	empty	same
CBX2	This gene encodes a component of the polycomb multiprotein complex, which is required to maintain the transcriptionally repressive state of many genes throughout development via chromatin remodeling and modification of histones. Disruption of this gene in mice results in male-to-female gonadal sex reversal. Mutations in this gene are also associated with gonadal dysgenesis in humans. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]	CBX2 (Chromobox Homolog 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CBX2 include 46xy sex reversal 5 and swyer syndrome. Among its related pathways are Cellular Senescence and Cellular Senescence. GO annotations related to this gene include chromatin binding and methylated histone binding. An important paralog of this gene is CBX4.	Component of a Polycomb group (PcG) multiprotein PRC1-like complex, a complex class required to maintain the transcriptionally repressive state of many genes, including Hox genes, throughout development. PcG PRC1 complex acts via chromatin remodeling and modification of histones; it mediates monoubiquitination of histone H2A Lys-119, rendering chromatin heritably changed in its expressibility. Involved in sexual development, acting as activator of NR5A1 expression.	same
CBS	The protein encoded by this gene acts as a homotetramer to catalyze the conversion of homocysteine to cystathionine, the first step in the transsulfuration pathway. The encoded protein is allosterically activated by adenosyl-methionine and uses pyridoxal phosphate as a cofactor. Defects in this gene can cause cystathionine beta-synthase deficiency (CBSD), which can lead to homocystinuria. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	CBS (Cystathionine-Beta-Synthase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CBS include homocystinuria, b6-responsive and nonresponsive types and homocystinuria caused by cystathionine beta-synthase deficiency. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Carbon metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and enzyme binding. An important paralog of this gene is LOC102724560.	Only known pyridoxal phosphate-dependent enzyme that contains heme. Important regulator of hydrogen sulfide, especially in the brain, utilizing cysteine instead of serine to catalyze the formation of hydrogen sulfide. Hydrogen sulfide is a gastratransmitter with signaling and cytoprotective effects such as acting as a neuromodulator in the brain to protect neurons against hypoxic injury (By similarity).	same
CBX3	At the nuclear envelope, the nuclear lamina and heterochromatin are adjacent to the inner nuclear membrane. The protein encoded by this gene binds DNA and is a component of heterochromatin. This protein also can bind lamin B receptor, an integral membrane protein found in the inner nuclear membrane. The dual binding functions of the encoded protein may explain the association of heterochromatin with the inner nuclear membrane. This protein binds histone H3 tails methylated at Lys-9 sites. This protein is also recruited to sites of ultraviolet-induced DNA damage and double-strand breaks. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein but differing in the 5' UTR, have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]	CBX3 (Chromobox Homolog 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and Chromatin Regulation / Acetylation. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and protein domain specific binding. An important paralog of this gene is CBX1.	Seems to be involved in transcriptional silencing in heterochromatin-like complexes. Recognizes and binds histone H3 tails methylated at Lys-9, leading to epigenetic repression. May contribute to the association of the heterochromatin with the inner nuclear membrane through its interaction with lamin B receptor (LBR). Involved in the formation of functional kinetochore through interaction with MIS12 complex proteins. Contributes to the conversion of local chromatin to a heterochromatin-like repressive state through H3 Lys-9 trimethylation, mediates the recruitment of the mehtyltransferases SUV39H1 and/or SUV39H2 by the PER complex to the E-box elements of the circadian target genes such as PER2 itself or PER1	same
CBX6	empty	CBX6 (Chromobox Homolog 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cellular Senescence and Cellular Senescence. GO annotations related to this gene include single-stranded RNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is CBX4.	Component of a Polycomb group (PcG) multiprotein PRC1-like complex, a complex class required to maintain the transcriptionally repressive state of many genes, including Hox genes, throughout development. PcG PRC1 complex acts via chromatin remodeling and modification of histones; it mediates monoubiquitination of histone H2A Lys-119, rendering chromatin heritably changed in its expressibility.	same
CBX4	empty	CBX4 (Chromobox Homolog 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CBX4 include brain cancer. Among its related pathways are Cellular Senescence and Cellular Senescence. GO annotations related to this gene include chromatin binding and transcription corepressor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CBX2.	E3 SUMO-protein ligase which facilitates SUMO1 conjugation by UBE2I. Involved in the sumoylation of HNRNPK, a p53/TP53 transcriptional coactivator, hence indirectly regulates p53/TP53 transcriptional activation resulting in p21/CDKN1A expression. Monosumoylates ZNF131	same
CBX5	This gene encodes a highly conserved nonhistone protein, which is a member of the heterochromatin protein family. The protein is enriched in the heterochromatin and associated with centromeres. The protein has a single N-terminal chromodomain which can bind to histone proteins via methylated lysine residues, and a C-terminal chromo shadow-domain (CSD) which is responsible for the homodimerization and interaction with a number of chromatin-associated nonhistone proteins. The encoded product is involved in the formation of functional kinetochore through interaction with essential kinetochore proteins. The gene has a pseudogene located on chromosome 3. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CBX5 (Chromobox Homolog 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Hemostasis and Chromatin Regulation / Acetylation. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and enzyme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CBX1.	Component of heterochromatin that recognizes and binds histone H3 tails methylated at Lys-9 (H3K9me), leading to epigenetic repression. In contrast, it is excluded from chromatin when Tyr-41 of histone H3 is phosphorylated (H3Y41ph). Can interact with lamin-B receptor (LBR). This interaction can contribute to the association of the heterochromatin with the inner nuclear membrane. Involved in the formation of functional kinetochore through interaction with MIS12 complex proteins.	same
CBX7	empty	CBX7 (Chromobox Homolog 7) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include chromatin binding and single-stranded RNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is CBX4.	Component of a Polycomb group (PcG) multiprotein PRC1-like complex, a complex class required to maintain the transcriptionally repressive state of many genes, including Hox genes, throughout development. PcG PRC1 complex acts via chromatin remodeling and modification of histones; it mediates monoubiquitination of histone H2A Lys-119, rendering chromatin heritably changed in its expressibility. Promotes histone H3 trimethylation at Lys-9 (H3K9me3). Binds to trimethylated lysine residues in histones, and possibly also other proteins. Regulator of cellular lifespan by maintaining the repression of CDKN2A, but not by inducing telomerase activity.	same
CBX8	empty	CBX8 (Chromobox Homolog 8) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cellular Senescence and Cellular Senescence. GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin-protein transferase activity and single-stranded RNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is CBX4.	Component of a Polycomb group (PcG) multiprotein PRC1-like complex, a complex class required to maintain the transcriptionally repressive state of many genes, including Hox genes, throughout development. PcG PRC1 complex acts via chromatin remodeling and modification of histones; it mediates monoubiquitination of histone H2A Lys-119, rendering chromatin heritably changed in its expressibility.	same
CBY1	Beta-catenin is a transcriptional activator and oncoprotein involved in the development of several cancers. The protein encoded by this gene interacts directly with the C-terminal region of beta-catenin, inhibiting oncogenic beta-catenin-mediated transcriptional activation by competing with transcription factors for binding to beta-catenin. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CBY1 (Chibby Homolog 1 (Drosophila)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CBY1 include pediatric ependymoma. Among its related pathways are Regulation of Wnt-mediated beta catenin signaling and target gene transcription and WNT Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and beta-catenin binding. An important paralog of this gene is CBY3.	Inhibits the Wnt/Wingless pathway by binding to beta-catenin and inhibiting beta-catenin-mediated transcriptional activation through competition with TCF/LEF transcription factors. Has also been shown to play a role in regulating the intracellular trafficking of polycystin-2/PKD2 and possibly of other intracellular proteins. Promotes adipocyte and cardiomyocyte differentiation.	same
CC2D2B	empty	CC2D2B (Coiled-Coil And C2 Domain Containing 2B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CC2D2B include alcohol dependence and nephronophthisis. An important paralog of this gene is C10orf131.	empty	same
CC2D1A	This gene encodes a transcriptional repressor that binds to a conserved 14-bp 5'-repressor element and regulates expression of the 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin) receptor 1A gene in neuronal cells. The DNA binding and transcriptional repressor activities of the protein are inhibited by calcium. A mutation in this gene results in nonsyndromic mental retardation-3.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]	CC2D1A (Coiled-Coil And C2 Domain Containing 1A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CC2D1A include mental retardation and autosomal recessive non-syndromic intellectual disability. Among its related pathways are SIDS Susceptibility Pathways. GO annotations related to this gene include signal transducer activity and RNA polymerase II core promoter proximal region sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity involved in negative regulation of transcription. An important paralog of this gene is CC2D1B.	Transcription factor that binds specifically to the DRE (dual repressor element) and represses HTR1A gene transcription in neuronal cells. The combination of calcium and ATP specifically inactivates the binding with FRE. May play a role in the altered regulation of HTR1A associated with anxiety and major depression. Mediates HDAC-independent repression of HTR1A promoter in neuronal cell. Performs essential function in controlling functional maturation of synapses (By similarity). Plays distinct roles depending on its localization. When cytoplasmic, acts as a scaffold protein in the PI3K/PDK1/AKT pathway. Repressor of HTR1A when nuclear. In the centrosome, regulates spindle pole localization of the cohesin subunit SCC1/RAD21, thereby mediating centriole cohesion during mitosis.	same
CC2D1B	empty	CC2D1B (Coiled-Coil And C2 Domain Containing 1B) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA polymerase II core promoter proximal region sequence-specific DNA binding and RNA polymerase II core promoter proximal region sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity involved in negative regulation of transcription. An important paralog of this gene is CC2D1A.	Transcription factor that binds specifically to the DRE (dual repressor element) and represses HTR1A gene transcription in neuronal cells.	same
CC2D2A	This gene encodes a coiled-coil and calcium binding domain protein that appears to play a critical role in cilia formation. Mutations in this gene cause Meckel syndrome type 6, as well as Joubert syndrome type 9. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]	CC2D2A (Coiled-Coil And C2 Domain Containing 2A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CC2D2A include joubert syndrome 9 and meckel syndrome 6. An important paralog of this gene is C10orf131.	Component of the tectonic-like complex, a complex localized at the transition zone of primary cilia and acting as a barrier that prevents diffusion of transmembrane proteins between the cilia and plasma membranes. Required for ciliogenesis and sonic hedgehog/SHH signaling (By similarity).	same
CCBP2	empty	empty	empty	same
CCBE1	This gene is thought to function in extracellular matrix remodeling and migration. It is predominantly expressed in the ovary, but down regulated in ovarian cancer cell lines and primary carcinomas, suggesting its role as a tumour suppressor. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Hennekam lymphangiectasia-lymphedema syndrome, a generalized lymphatic dysplasia in humans. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]	CCBE1 (Collagen And Calcium Binding EGF Domains 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCBE1 include hennekam lymphangiectasia-lymphedema syndrome 1 and hennekam syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and collagen binding.	Required for lymphangioblast budding and angiogenic sprouting from venous endothelium during embryogenesis.	same
CCBL1	This gene encodes a cytosolic enzyme that is responsible for the metabolism of cysteine conjugates of certain halogenated alkenes and alkanes. This metabolism can form reactive metabolites leading to nephrotoxicity and neurotoxicity. Increased levels of this enzyme have been linked to schizophrenia. Multiple transcript variants that encode different isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CCBL1 (Cysteine Conjugate-Beta Lyase, Cytoplasmic) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCBL1 include schizophrenia. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and transaminase activity. An important paralog of this gene is TAT.	Catalyzes the irreversible transamination of the L-tryptophan metabolite L-kynurenine to form kynurenic acid (KA). Metabolizes the cysteine conjugates of certain halogenated alkenes and alkanes to form reactive metabolites. Catalyzes the beta-elimination of S-conjugates and Se-conjugates of L-(seleno)cysteine, resulting in the cleavage of the C-S or C-Se bond.	same
CCDC102A	empty	CCDC102A (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 102A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCDC102A include diabetic cataract. An important paralog of this gene is CCDC102B.	empty	same
CCDC101	CCDC101 is a subunit of 2 histone acetyltransferase complexes: the ADA2A (TADA2A; MIM 602276)-containing (ATAC) complex and the SPT3 (SUPT3H; MIM 602947)-TAF9 (MIM 600822)-GCN5 (KAT2A; MIM 602301)/PCAF (KAT2B; MIM 602303) acetylase (STAGA) complex. Both of these complexes contain either GCN5 or PCAF, which are paralogous acetyltransferases (Wang et al., 2008 [PubMed 18838386]).[supplied by OMIM, Apr 2010]	CCDC101 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 101) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCDC101 include diabetic macular edema. Among its related pathways are RNA Polymerase I Promoter Opening and RNA Polymerase I Promoter Opening. GO annotations related to this gene include methylated histone binding. An important paralog of this gene is LOC388242.	Involved in transcriptional regulation, through association with histone acetyltransferase (HAT) SAGA-type complexes like the TFTC-HAT, ATAC or STAGA complexes. Specifically recognizes and binds methylated Lys-4 of histone H3 (H3K4me), with a preference for trimethylated form (H3K4me3). In the SAGA-type complexes, required to recruit complexes to H3K4me. May be involved in MYC-mediated oncogenic transformation.	same
CCDC102B	empty	CCDC102B (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 102B) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CCDC102A.	empty	same
CCDC103	This gene encodes a protein that contains a coiled-coil domain. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]	CCDC103 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 103) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCDC103 include ciliary dyskinesia, primary, 17 and primary ciliary dyskinesia17: ccdc103-related primary ciliary dyskinesia. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity.	Dynein-attachment factor required for cilia motility.	same
CCDC105	empty	CCDC105 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 105) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC104	empty	CFAP36 (Cilia And Flagella Associated Protein 36) is a Protein Coding gene.	May act as an effector for ARL3	diff
CCDC109B	empty	CCDC109B (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 109B) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include ion channel activity and calcium channel inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is MCU.	Negatively regulates the activity of MCU, the mitochondrial inner membrane calcium uniporter, and thereby modulates calcium uptake into the mitochondrion. Does not form functional calcium channels by itself. Mitochondrial calcium homeostasis plays key roles in cellular physiology and regulates cell bioenergetics, cytoplasmic calcium signals and activation of cell death pathways.	same
CCBL2	This gene encodes an aminotransferase that transaminates kynurenine to form kynurenic acid. Kynurenic acid is a metabolite of tryptophan. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different proteins have been described for this gene. This gene shares 5' exon structure with the RNA binding motif protein, X-linked-like 1 locus on chromosome 1, but the coding sequences are non-overlapping. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]	CCBL2 (Cysteine Conjugate-Beta Lyase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and kynurenine-oxoglutarate transaminase activity. An important paralog of this gene is TAT.	Catalyzes the irreversible transamination of the L-tryptophan metabolite L-kynurenine to form kynurenic acid (KA). May catalyze the beta-elimination of S-conjugates and Se-conjugates of L-(seleno)cysteine, resulting in the cleavage of the C-S or C-Se bond (By similarity). Has transaminase activity towards L-kynurenine, tryptophan, phenylalanine, serine, cysteine, methionine, histidine, glutamine and asparagine with glyoxylate as an amino group acceptor (in vitro). Has lower activity with 2-oxoglutarate as amino group acceptor (in vitro) (By similarity).	same
CCDC111	empty	PRIMPOL (Primase And Polymerase (DNA-Directed)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with PRIMPOL include myopia 22, autosomal dominant. GO annotations related to this gene include DNA primase activity.	DNA primase and DNA polymerase able to initiate de novo DNA synthesis using dNTPs. Shows a high capacity to tolerate DNA damage lesions such as 8oxoG and abasic sites in DNA. Involved in translesion synthesis via its primase activity by mediating uninterrupted fork progression after programmed or damage-induced fork arrest and by reinitiating DNA synthesis after dNTP depletion. Required for mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) synthesis, suggesting it may be involved in DNA tolerance during the replication of mitochondrial DNA. Has non-overlapping function with POLH.	diff
CCDC112	empty	CCDC112 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 112) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC110	empty	CCDC110 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 110) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC113	empty	CCDC113 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 113) is a Protein Coding gene.	Component of centriolar satellites contributing to primary cilium formation.	same
CCDC114	This gene encodes a coiled-coil domain-containing protein that is a component of the outer dynein arm docking complex in cilia cells. Mutations in this gene may cause primary ciliary dyskinesia 20. [provided by RefSeq, May 2013]	CCDC114 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 114) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCDC114 include ciliary dyskinesia, primary, 20. An important paralog of this gene is CCDC63.	Probable component of the outer dynein arm complex required along the entire axoneme for tethering of outer dynein arms.	same
CCDC107	This gene encodes a membrane protein which contains a coiled-coil domain in the central region. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]	CCDC107 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 107) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC115	empty	CCDC115 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 115) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC116	empty	CCDC116 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 116) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC117	empty	CCDC117 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 117) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC120	This gene encodes a protein that contains a coiled-coil domain. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2012]	CCDC120 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 120) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC11	empty	CFAP53 (Cilia And Flagella Associated Protein 53) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
CCDC123	empty	empty	empty	same
CCDC121	empty	CCDC121 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 121) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCAR1	empty	CCAR1 (Cell Division Cycle And Apoptosis Regulator 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and mRNA Splicing - Major Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleic acid binding and ligand-dependent nuclear receptor transcription coactivator activity. An important paralog of this gene is CCAR2.	Associates with components of the Mediator and p160 coactivator complexes that play a role as intermediaries transducing regulatory signals from upstream transcriptional activator proteins to basal transcription machinery at the core promoter. Recruited to endogenous nuclear receptor target genes in response to the appropriate hormone. Also functions as a p53 coactivator. May thus play an important role in transcriptional regulation (By similarity). May be involved in apoptosis signaling in the presence of the reinoid CD437. Apoptosis induction involves sequestration of 14-3-3 protein(s) and mediated altered expression of multiple cell cycle regulatory genes including MYC, CCNB1 and CDKN1A. Plays a role in cell cycle progression and/or cell proliferation.	same
CCDC122	empty	CCDC122 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 122) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC106	empty	CCDC106 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 106) is a Protein Coding gene.	Promotes the degradation of p53/TP53 protein and inhibits its transactivity.	same
CCDC108	empty	CCDC108 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 108) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include structural molecule activity.	empty	same
C6orf145	empty	PXDC1 (PX Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include phosphatidylinositol binding.	empty	diff
CCDC125	empty	CCDC125 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 125) is a Protein Coding gene.	May be involved in the regulation of cell migration.	same
CCDC109A	This gene encodes a calcium transporter that localizes to the mitochondrial inner membrane. The encoded protein interacts with mitochondrial calcium uptake 1. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]	MCU (Mitochondrial Calcium Uniporter) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium channel activity and uniporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is CCDC109B.	Mitochondrial inner membrane calcium uniporter that mediates calcium uptake into mitochondria. Mitochondrial calcium homeostasis plays key roles in cellular physiology and regulates cell bioenergetics, cytoplasmic calcium signals and activation of cell death pathways. Activity is regulated by MICU1 and MICU2 that stimulate and inhibit MCU activity, respectively. Regulates glucose-dependent insulin secretion in pancreatic beta-cells by regulating mitochondrial calcium uptake. Involved in buffering the amplitude of systolic calcium rises in cardiomyocytes.	diff
CCDC129	empty	CCDC129 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 129) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is SSFA2.	empty	same
CCDC12	empty	CCDC12 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 12) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Spliceosome.	empty	same
CCDC127	empty	CCDC127 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 127) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC124	empty	CCDC124 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 124) is a Protein Coding gene.	Required for proper progression of late cytokinetic stages.	same
CCDC130	empty	CCDC130 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 130) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCDC130 include phlebotomus fever and trench fever. An important paralog of this gene is CCDC94.	empty	same
CCDC126	empty	CCDC126 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 126) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include alpha-1,6-mannosylglycoprotein 6-beta-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is MGAT5B.	empty	same
CCDC135	empty	DRC7 (Dynein Regulatory Complex Subunit 7) is a Protein Coding gene.	Key component of the nexin-dynein regulatory complex (N-DRC), essential for N-DRC integrity. Involved in the regulation of flagellar motility.	diff
CCDC134	empty	CCDC134 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 134) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC138	empty	CCDC138 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 138) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC132	empty	CCDC132 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 132) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC13	empty	CCDC13 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 13) is a Protein Coding gene.	Required for primary cilia formation and promotes the localization of the ciliopathy protein BBS4 to both centriolar satellites and cilia.	same
CCDC144B	empty	CCDC144B (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 144B (Pseudogene)) is a Pseudogene.	empty	same
CCDC136	empty	CCDC136 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 136) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCDC136 include nasopharyngeal carcinoma. An important paralog of this gene is TRAF3IP3.	empty	same
CCDC142	empty	CCDC142 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 142) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC141	empty	CCDC141 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 141) is a Protein Coding gene.	Plays a critical role in radial migration and centrosomal function.	same
CCDC144A	empty	CCDC144A (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 144A) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is POTEJ.	empty	same
CCDC146	empty	CCDC146 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 146) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CFAP58.	empty	same
CCDC148	empty	CCDC148 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 148) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC147	empty	CFAP58 (Cilia And Flagella Associated Protein 58) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CCDC146.	empty	diff
CCDC149	empty	CCDC149 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 149) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC14	empty	CCDC14 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 14) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC150	empty	CCDC150 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 150) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC151	This gene encodes a protein containing coiled-coil domains. The encoded protein functions in outer dynein arm assembly and is required for motile cilia function. Mutations in this gene result in primary ciliary dyskinesia. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014]	CCDC151 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 151) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCDC151 include ciliary dyskinesia, primary, 30.	Ciliary protein involved in outer dynein arm assembly and required for motile cilia function.	same
CCDC152	empty	CCDC152 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 152) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC153	empty	CCDC153 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 153) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC140	This gene encodes a protein that appears to be restricted to select higher primate species. This protein contains a C-terminal coiled-coil domain, which is a versatile structural motif consisting of multiple amphipathic alpha-helices that twist around each other to form a supercoil. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	CCDC140 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 140) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC157	empty	CCDC157 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 157) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC155	empty	CCDC155 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 155) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding.	May be involved in meiotic chromosome dynamics and homolog pairing.	same
CCDC144NL	empty	CCDC144NL (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 144 Family, N-Terminal Like) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC144C	empty	CCDC144CP (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 144C, Pseudogene) is a Pseudogene.	empty	diff
CCDC158	empty	CCDC158 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 158) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC154	empty	CCDC154 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 154) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC160	empty	CCDC160 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 160) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC15	empty	CCDC15 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 15) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC18	empty	CCDC18 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 18) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCDC18 include sarcoma.	empty	same
CCDC159	empty	CCDC159 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 159) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC163P	empty	CCDC163P (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 163, Pseudogene) is a Pseudogene.	empty	same
CCDC137	empty	CCDC137 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 137) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC17	empty	CCDC17 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 17) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC23	empty	CCDC23 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 23) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC24	empty	CCDC24 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 24) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC25	empty	CCDC25 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 25) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC22	This gene encodes a protein containing a coiled-coil domain. The encoded protein functions in the regulation of NF-kB (nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells) by interacting with COMMD (copper metabolism Murr1 domain-containing) proteins. The mouse orthologous protein has been shown to bind copines, which are calcium-dependent, membrane-binding proteins that may function in calcium signaling. This human gene has been identified as a novel candidate gene for syndromic X-linked intellectual disability. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2013]	CCDC22 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 22) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCDC22 include ritscher-schinzel syndrome and syndromic x-linked intellectual disability.	Involved in regulation of NF-kappa-B signaling. Promotes ubiquitination of I-kappa-B-kinase subunit IKBKB and its subsequent proteasomal degradation leading to NF-kappa-B activation; the function may involve association with COMMD8 and a CUL1-dependent E3 ubiquitin ligase complex. May down-regulate NF-kappa-B activity via assocation with COMMD1 and involving a CUL2-dependent E3 ubiquitin ligase complex. Regulates the cellular localization of COMM domain-containing proteins, such as COMMD1 and COMMD10 (PubMed:23563313). Plays a role in copper ion homeostasis. Involved in copper-dependent ATP7A trafficking between the trans-Golgi network and vesicles in the cell periphery; the function is proposed to depend on its association within the CCC complex and cooperation with the WASH complex on early endosomes (PubMed:25355947).	same
CCDC19	empty	CFAP45 (Cilia And Flagella Associated Protein 45) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
CCDC27	empty	CCDC27 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 27) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC28A	This gene is located in a region close to the locus of the pseudogene of chemokine (C-C motif) receptor-like 1 on chromosome 6. The specific function of this gene has not yet been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CCDC28A (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 28A) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CCDC28B.	empty	same
CCDC21	This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the centrosome-associated family of proteins. The centrosome is a subcellular organelle in the animal cell that functions as a microtubule organizing center and is involved in cell-cycle progression. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]	CEP85 (Centrosomal Protein 85kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CEP85L.	empty	diff
CCDC30	empty	CCDC30 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 30) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC33	empty	CCDC33 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 33) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC28B	The product of this gene localizes to centrosomes and basal bodies. The protein colocalizes with several proteins associated with Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) and participates in the regulation of cilia development. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]	CCDC28B (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 28B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCDC28B include bardet-biedl syndrome 1 and retinal disease. An important paralog of this gene is CCDC28A.	Involved in ciliogenesis. Regulates cilia length through its interaction with MAPKAP1/SIN1 but independently of mTORC2 complex. Modulates mTORC2 complex assembly and function, possibly enhances AKT1 phosphorylation. Does not seem to modulate assembly and function of mTORC1 complex.	same
CCDC37	empty	CCDC37 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 37) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCDC37 include facial paralysis. An important paralog of this gene is CCDC38.	empty	same
CCDC36	empty	CCDC36 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 36) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC38	empty	CCDC38 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 38) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CCDC37.	empty	same
CCDC39	The protein encoded by this gene is involved in the motility of cilia and flagella. The encoded protein is essential for the assembly of dynein regulatory and inner dynein arm complexes, which regulate ciliary beat. Defects in this gene are a cause of primary ciliary dyskinesia type 14 (CILD14). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]	CCDC39 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 39) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCDC39 include ciliary dyskinesia, primary, 14 and primary ciliary dyskinesia14: ccdc39-related primary ciliary dyskinesia.	Required for assembly of dynein regulatory complex (DRC) and inner dynein arm (IDA) complexes, which are responsible for ciliary beat regulation, thereby playing a central role in motility in cilia and flagella (PubMed:21131972). Probably acts together with CCDC40 to form a molecular ruler that determines the 96 nanometer (nm) repeat length and arrangements of components in cilia and flagella (By similarity). Not required for outer dynein arm complexes assembly (PubMed:21131972).	same
CCDC3	empty	CCDC3 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 3) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC42B	empty	CCDC42B (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 42B) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CCDC42.	empty	same
CCDC42	empty	CCDC42 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 42) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CCDC42B.	empty	same
CCDC48	empty	EFCC1 (EF-Hand And Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding.	empty	diff
CCDC50	This gene encodes a soluble, cytoplasmic, tyrosine-phosphorylated protein with multiple ubiquitin-interacting domains. Mutations in this gene cause nonsyndromic, postlingual, progressive sensorineural DFNA44 hearing loss. In mouse, the protein is expressed in the inner ear during development and postnatal maturation and associates with microtubule-based structures. This protein may also function as a negative regulator of NF-kB signaling and as an effector of epidermal growth factor (EGF)-mediated cell signaling. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]	CCDC50 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 50) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCDC50 include deafness, autosomal dominant 44 and dfna44 nonsyndromic hearing loss and deafness.	Involved in EGFR signaling.	same
CCDC45	empty	CEP95 (Centrosomal Protein 95kDa) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
CCDC34	empty	CCDC34 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 34) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCDC34 include spinal stenosis.	empty	same
CCDC40	This gene encodes a protein that is necessary for motile cilia function. It functions in correct left-right axis formation by regulating the assembly of the inner dynein arm and the dynein regulatory complexes, which control ciliary beat. Mutations in this gene cause ciliary dyskinesia type 15, a disorder due to defects in cilia motility. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	CCDC40 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 40) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCDC40 include ciliary dyskinesia, primary, 15 and primary ciliary dyskinesia15: ccdc40-related primary ciliary dyskinesia.	Required for assembly of dynein regulatory complex (DRC) and inner dynein arm (IDA) complexes, which are responsible for ciliary beat regulation, thereby playing a central role in motility in cilia and flagella (PubMed:21131974). Probably acts together with CCDC39 to form a molecular ruler that determines the 96 nanometer (nm) repeat length and arrangements of components in cilia and flagella (By similarity). Not required for outer dynein arm complexes assembly. Required for axonemal recruitment of CCDC39 (PubMed:21131974)..	same
CCDC51	empty	CCDC51 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 51) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC41	empty	CEP83 (Centrosomal Protein 83kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CEP83 include nephronophthisis 18 and infantile nephronophthisis.	Component of the distal appendage region of the centriole involved in the initiation of primary cilium assembly. May collaborate with IFT20 in the trafficking of ciliary membrane proteins from the Golgi complex to the cilium during the initiation of primary cilium assembly.	diff
CCDC54	empty	CCDC54 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 54) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC55	empty	NSRP1 (Nuclear Speckle Splicing Regulatory Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include mRNA binding.	RNA-binding protein that mediates pre-mRNA alternative splicing regulation.	diff
CCDC53	empty	CCDC53 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 53) is a Protein Coding gene.	Acts at least in part as component of the WASH core complex whose assembly at the surface of endosomes seems to inhibit WASH nucleation-promoting factor (NPF) activity in recruiting and activating the Arp2/3 complex to induce actin polymerization, and which is involved in regulation of the fission of tubules that serve as transport intermediates during endosome sorting (PubMed:19922875, PubMed:20498093).	same
CCDC57	empty	CCDC57 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 57) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC56	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome c oxidase assembly factor family. Studies of a related gene in fly suggest that the encoded protein is localized to mitochondria and is essential for cytochrome c oxidase function. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2012]	COA3 (Cytochrome C Oxidase Assembly Factor 3) is a Protein Coding gene.	Component of some MITRAC complex, a cytochrome c oxidase (COX) assembly intermediate complex that regulates COX assembly. MITRAC complexes regulate both translation of mitochondrial encoded components and assembly of nuclear-encoded components imported in mitochondrion. Required for efficient translation of MT-CO1 and mitochondrial respiratory chain complex IV assembly.	diff
CCDC60	empty	CCDC60 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 60) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC59	empty	CCDC59 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 59) is a Protein Coding gene.	Component of the transcription complexes of the pulmonary surfactant-associated protein-B (SFTPB) and -C (SFTPC). Enhances homeobox protein Nkx-2.1-activated SFTPB and SFTPC promoter activities.	same
CCDC58	empty	CCDC58 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 58) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC61	empty	CCDC61 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 61) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC43	empty	CCDC43 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 43) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC62	empty	CCDC62 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 62) is a Protein Coding gene.	Nuclear receptor coactivator that can enhance preferentially estrogen receptors ESR1 and ESR2 transactivation. Modulates also progesterone/PGR, glucocorticoid/NR3C1 and androgen/AR receptors transactivation, although at lower level; little effect on vitamin D receptor/VDR.	same
CCDC47	empty	CCDC47 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 47) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000125695.	empty	same
CCDC64B	empty	CCDC64B (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 64B) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include Rab GTPase binding. An important paralog of this gene is CCDC64.	empty	same
CCDC46	This gene encodes a coiled-coil domain containing protein that belongs to the cell division control protein 42 effector protein family. In neurons, it localizes to the cytoplasm of dendrites and is also enriched in the nucleus where it interacts with the RNA polymerase III transcriptional repressor Maf1 to regulate gamma-aminobutyric acid A receptor surface expression. In addition, the protein has been identified as a component of the human centrosome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]	CEP112 (Centrosomal Protein 112kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000266076.	empty	diff
CCDC63	empty	CCDC63 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 63) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CCDC114.	empty	same
CCDC64	empty	CCDC64 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 64) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include Rab GTPase binding and dynactin binding. An important paralog of this gene is CCDC64B.	Component of secretory vesicle machinery in developing neurons that acts as a regulator of neurite outgrowth. Regulates the secretory vesicle transport by controlling the accumulation of Rab6-containing secretory vesicles in the pericentrosomal region restricting anterograde secretory transport during the early phase of neuronal differentiation, thereby inhibiting neuritogenesis (By similarity).	same
CCDC67	empty	CCDC67 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 67) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CEP63.	Key structural component of the deuterosome, a structure that promotes de novo centriole amplification in multiciliated cells. Deuterosome-mediated centriole amplification occurs in terminally differentiated multiciliated cells and can generate more than 100 centrioles. Probably sufficient for the specification and formation of the deuterosome inner core. Interacts with CEP152 and recruits PLK4 to activate centriole biogenesis (By similarity).	same
CCDC68	empty	CCDC68 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 68) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC71	empty	CCDC71 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 71) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC70	empty	CCDC70 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 70) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC74A	empty	CCDC74A (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 74A) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CCDC74B.	empty	same
CCDC74B	empty	CCDC74B (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 74B) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CCDC74A.	empty	same
CCDC6	This gene encodes a coiled-coil domain-containing protein. The encoded protein is ubiquitously expressed and may function as a tumor suppressor. A chromosomal rearrangement resulting in the expression of a fusion gene containing a portion of this gene and the intracellular kinase-encoding domain of the ret proto-oncogene is the cause of thyroid papillary carcinoma.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]	CCDC6 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCDC6 include thyroid carcinoma, papillary and thyroid cancer. Among its related pathways are Pathways in cancer and RB in Cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include SH3 domain binding and structural constituent of cytoskeleton.	empty	same
CCDC72	empty	TMA7 (Translation Machinery Associated 7 Homolog (S. Cerevisiae)) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
CCDC66	empty	CCDC66 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 66) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC75	empty	GPATCH11 (G Patch Domain Containing 11) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleic acid binding.	empty	diff
CCDC76	empty	TRMT13 (TRNA Methyltransferase 13 Homolog (S. Cerevisiae)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include methyltransferase activity.	tRNA methylase which 2-O-methylates cytidine(4) in tRNA(Pro) and tRNA(Gly)(GCC), and adenosine(4) in tRNA(His).	diff
CCDC77	empty	CCDC77 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 77) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC65	This gene encodes a sperm tail protein that is highly expressed in adult testis, spermatocytes and spermatids. The protein plays a critical role in the assembly of the nexin-dynein regulatory complex. Mutations in this gene result in primary ciliary dyskinesia. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2013]	CCDC65 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 65) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCDC65 include ciliary dyskinesia, primary, 27 and clear cell sarcoma.	May play a role in motile cilia function, possibly by acting on the assembly of the nexin-dynein regulatory complex.	same
CCDC52	empty	SPICE1 (Spindle And Centriole Associated Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	Regulator required for centriole duplication, for proper bipolar spindle formation and chromosome congression in mitosis.	diff
CCDC78	The product of this gene contains two coiled-coil domains. The function of this gene is currently unknown. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2012]	CCDC78 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 78) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCDC78 include myopathy, centronuclear, 4 and congenital myopathy with internal nuclei and atypical cores.	Component of the deuterosome, a structure that promotes de novo centriole amplification in multiciliated cells that can generate more than 100 centrioles. Deuterosome-mediated centriole amplification occurs in terminally differentiated multiciliated cells (G1/0) and not in S phase. Essential for centriole amplification and is required for CEP152 localization to the deuterosome.	same
CCDC7	empty	CCDC7 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 7) is a Protein Coding gene.	May play a role in tumorigenesis.	same
CCDC79	empty	CCDC79 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 79) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include chromatin binding.	Meiosis-specific telomere-associated protein involved in meiotic telomere clustering, also named bouquet formation, the telomere-mediated chromosomal movement along the nuclear envelope which is crucial for homologous pairing and synapsis. Probably acts as a hub for the assembly of a conserved meiotic telomere complex required for chromosome movements via interaction with TERF1. Promotes telomere association with the nuclear envelope and deposition of the SUN-KASH/LINC complex. Also recruits cohesin to telomeres to develop structural rigidity (By similarity).	same
CCDC80	empty	CCDC80 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 80) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include heparin binding and fibronectin binding. An important paralog of this gene is SRPX2.	Promotes cell adhesion and matrix assembly.	same
CCDC82	empty	CCDC82 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 82) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC83	empty	CCDC83 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 83) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC84	This gene encodes a protein thought to contain a coiled coil motif. No function has been determined for the encoded protein. A pseudogene of this gene is located on chromosome 20. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2013]	CCDC84 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 84) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC85B	Hepatitis delta virus (HDV) is a pathogenic human virus whose RNA genome and replication cycle resemble those of plant viroids. Delta-interacting protein A (DIPA), a cellular gene product, has been found to have homology to hepatitis delta virus antigen (HDAg). DIPA interacts with the viral antigen, HDAg, and can affect HDV replication in vitro. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CCDC85B (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 85B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCDC85B include hepatitis and relapsing fever. An important paralog of this gene is CCDC85C.	Functions as a transcriptional repressor. May inhibit the activity of CTNNB1 in a TP53-dependent manner and thus regulate cell growth. May function in adipocyte differentiation, negatively regulating mitotic clonal expansion.	same
CCDC86	empty	CCDC86 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 86) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC73	empty	CCDC73 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 73) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC88A	This gene encodes a member of the Girdin family of coiled-coil domain containing proteins. The encoded protein is an actin-binding protein that is activated by the serine/threonine kinase Akt and plays a role in cytoskeleton remodeling and cell migration. The encoded protein also enhances Akt signaling by mediating phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)-dependent activation of Akt by growth factor receptor tyrosine kinases and G protein-coupled receptors. Increased expression of this gene and phosphorylation of the encoded protein may play a role in cancer metastasis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	CCDC88A (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 88A) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and microtubule binding. An important paralog of this gene is HOOK3.	Plays a role as a key modulator of the AKT-mTOR signaling pathway controlling the tempo of the process of newborn neurons integration during adult neurogenesis, including correct neuron positioning, dendritic development and synapse formation. Enhances phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)-dependent phosphorylation and kinase activity of AKT1/PKB, but does not possess kinase activity itself. Phosphorylation of AKT1/PKB thereby induces the phosphorylation of downstream effectors GSK3 and FOXO1/FKHR, and regulates DNA replication and cell proliferation (By similarity). Essential for the integrity of the actin cytoskeleton and for cell migration. Required for formation of actin stress fibers and lamellipodia. May be involved in membrane sorting in the early endosome.	same
CCDC88B	This gene encodes a member of the hook-related protein family. Members of this family are characterized by an N-terminal potential microtubule binding domain, a central coiled-coiled and a C-terminal Hook-related domain. The encoded protein may be involved in linking organelles to microtubules. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]	CCDC88B (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 88B) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding. An important paralog of this gene is CCDC88A.	empty	same
CCDC87	empty	CCDC87 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 87) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include microtubule binding.	empty	same
CCDC85A	empty	CCDC85A (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 85A) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CCDC85C.	empty	same
CCDC85C	empty	CCDC85C (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 85C) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CCDC85B.	May play an important role in cortical development, especially in the maintenance of radial glia.	same
CCDC89	empty	CCDC89 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 89) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC88C	This gene encodes a ubiquitously expressed coiled-coil domain-containing protein that interacts with the dishevelled protein and is a negative regulator of the Wnt signalling pathway. The protein encoded by this gene has a PDZ-domain binding motif in its C-terminus with which it interacts with the dishevelled protein. Dishevelled is a scaffold protein involved in the regulation of the Wnt signaling pathway. The Wnt signaling pathway plays an important role in embryonic development, tissue maintenance, and cancer progression. Mutations in this gene cause autosomal recessive, primary non-syndromic congenital hydrocephalus; a condition characterized by excessive accumulation of cerebrospinal fluid in the ventricles of the brain. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]	CCDC88C (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 88C) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCDC88C include spinocerebellar ataxia 40 and hydrocephalus, nonsyndromic, autosomal recessive. GO annotations related to this gene include PDZ domain binding and protein self-association. An important paralog of this gene is CCDC88A.	Negative regulator of the canonical Wnt signaling pathway, acting downstream of DVL to inhibit CTNNB1/Beta-catenin stabilization (By similarity). May also activate the JNK signaling pathway (PubMed:25062847).	same
CCDC8	This gene encodes a coiled-coil domain-containing protein. The encoded protein functions as a cofactor required for p53-mediated apoptosis following DNA damage, and may also play a role in growth through interactions with the cytoskeletal adaptor protein obscurin-like 1. Mutations in this gene are a cause of 3M syndrome-3 (3M3). [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	CCDC8 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 8) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCDC8 include 3-m syndrome 3 and 3-m syndrome, ccdc8-related.	Core component of the 3M complex, a complex required to regulate microtubule dynamics and genome integrity. It is unclear how the 3M complex regulates microtubules, it could act by controlling the level of a microtubule stabilizer (PubMed:24793695, PubMed:24793696). Required for localization of CUL7 to the centrosome (PubMed:24793695).	same
CCDC81	empty	CCDC81 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 81) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC90A	empty	MCUR1 (Mitochondrial Calcium Uniporter Regulator 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CCDC90B.	Key regulator of mitochondrial calcium uniporter (MCU) required for calcium entry into mitochondrion. Plays a direct role in uniporter-mediated calcium uptake, possibly via a direct interaction with MCU.	diff
CCDC92	empty	CCDC92 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 92) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC90B	empty	CCDC90B (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 90B) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is MCUR1.	empty	same
CCDC91	empty	CCDC91 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 91) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding.	Involved in the regulation of membrane traffic through the trans-Golgi network (TGN)	same
CCDC94	empty	CCDC94 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 94) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CCDC130.	empty	same
CCDC69	empty	CCDC69 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 69) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is MTUS2.	empty	same
CCDC99	empty	SPDL1 (Spindle Apparatus Coiled-Coil Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with SPDL1 include rhabdomyosarcoma. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include kinetochore binding.	Required for the localization of dynein and dynactin to the mitotic kintochore. Dynein is believed to control the initial lateral interaction between the kinetochore and spindle microtubules and to facilitate the subsequent formation of end-on kinetochore-microtubule attachments mediated by the NDC80 complex. Also required for correct spindle orientation. Does not appear to be required for the removal of spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC) proteins from the kinetochore upon bipolar spindle attachment.	diff
CCHCR1	empty	CCHCR1 (Coiled-Coil Alpha-Helical Rod Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	May be a regulator of keratinocyte proliferation or differentiation	same
CCDC97	empty	CCDC97 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 97) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCDC93	empty	CCDC93 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 93) is a Protein Coding gene.	Involved in copper-dependent ATP7A trafficking between the trans-Golgi network and vesicles in the cell periphery; the function is proposed to depend on its association within the CCC complex and cooperation with the WASH complex on early endosomes and is dependent on its interaction with FAM21C (PubMed:25355947).	same
CCDC9	empty	CCDC9 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 9) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is C15orf52.	empty	same
CCIN	The protein encoded by this gene is a basic protein of the sperm head cytoskeleton. This protein contains kelch repeats and a BTB/POZ domain and is necessary for normal morphology during sperm differentiation. This gene is intronless. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CCIN (Calicin) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include structural constituent of cytoskeleton. An important paralog of this gene is KLHL11.	Possible morphogenetic cytoskeletal element in spermiogenic differentiation	same
CCL14-CCL15	empty	empty	empty	same
CCL15	This gene is located in a cluster of similar genes in the same region of chromosome 17. These genes encode CC cytokines, which are secreted proteins characterized by two adjacent cysteines. The product of this gene is chemotactic for T cells and monocytes, and acts through C-C chemokine receptor type 1 (CCR1). The proprotein is further processed into numerous smaller functional peptides. Naturally-occurring readthrough transcripts occur from this gene into the downstream gene, CCL14 (chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 14). [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]	CCL15 (Chemokine (C-C Motif) Ligand 15) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCL15 include pertussis. Among its related pathways are TGF-Beta Pathway and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and chemokine activity.	Chemotactic factor that attracts T-cells and monocytes, but not neutrophils, eosinophils, or B-cells. Acts mainly via CC chemokine receptor CCR1. Also binds to CCR3. CCL15(22-92), CCL15(25-92) and CCL15(29-92) are more potent chemoattractants than the small-inducible cytokine A15.	same
CCL11	This antimicrobial gene is one of several chemokine genes clustered on the q-arm of chromosome 17. Chemokines form a superfamily of secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. The superfamily is divided into four subfamilies based on the arrangement of the N-terminal cysteine residues of the mature peptide. This chemokine, a member of the CC subfamily, displays chemotactic activity for eosinophils, but not mononuclear cells or neutrophils. This eosinophil-specific chemokine is thought to be involved in eosinophilic inflammatory diseases such as atopic dermatitis, allergic rhinitis, asthma and parasitic infections. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	CCL11 (Chemokine (C-C Motif) Ligand 11) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCL11 include dermatitis and cellular leiomyoma. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include chemokine activity. An important paralog of this gene is CCL2.	In response to the presence of allergens, this protein directly promotes the accumulation of eosinophils, a prominent feature of allergic inflammatory reactions. Binds to CCR3	same
CCL13	This antimicrobial gene is one of several Cys-Cys (CC) cytokine genes clustered on the q-arm of chromosome 17. Cytokines are a family of secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. The CC cytokines are proteins characterized by two adjacent cysteines. The cytokine encoded by this gene displays chemotactic activity for monocytes, lymphocytes, basophils and eosinophils, but not neutrophils. This chemokine plays a role in accumulation of leukocytes during inflammation. It may also be involved in the recruitment of monocytes into the arterial wall during artherosclerosis. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	CCL13 (Chemokine (C-C Motif) Ligand 13) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCL13 include far eastern spotted fever and spotted fever. Among its related pathways are TGF-Beta Pathway and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and chemokine activity. An important paralog of this gene is CCL2.	Chemotactic factor that attracts monocytes, lymphocytes, basophils and eosinophils, but not neutrophils. Signals through CCR2B and CCR3 receptors. Plays a role in the accumulation of leukocytes at both sides of allergic and non-allergic inflammation. May be involved in the recruitment of monocytes into the arterial wall during the disease process of atherosclerosis. May play a role in the monocyte attraction in tissues chronically exposed to exogenous pathogens	same
CCL19	This antimicrobial gene is one of several CC cytokine genes clustered on the p-arm of chromosome 9. Cytokines are a family of secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. The CC cytokines are proteins characterized by two adjacent cysteines. The cytokine encoded by this gene may play a role in normal lymphocyte recirculation and homing. It also plays an important role in trafficking of T cells in thymus, and in T cell and B cell migration to secondary lymphoid organs. It specifically binds to chemokine receptor CCR7. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	CCL19 (Chemokine (C-C Motif) Ligand 19) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCL19 include chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy and polyradiculoneuropathy. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include chemokine activity and CCR7 chemokine receptor binding.	May play a role not only in inflammatory and immunological responses but also in normal lymphocyte recirculation and homing. May play an important role in trafficking of T-cells in thymus, and T-cell and B-cell migration to secondary lymphoid organs. Binds to chemokine receptor CCR7. Recombinant CCL19 shows potent chemotactic activity for T-cells and B-cells but not for granulocytes and monocytes. Binds to atypical chemokine receptor ACKR4 and mediates the recruitment of beta-arrestin (ARRB1/2) to ACKR4.	same
CCKBR	This gene encodes a G-protein coupled receptor for gastrin and cholecystokinin (CCK), regulatory peptides of the brain and gastrointestinal tract. This protein is a type B gastrin receptor, which has a high affinity for both sulfated and nonsulfated CCK analogs and is found principally in the central nervous system and the gastrointestinal tract. A misspliced transcript variant including an intron has been observed in cells from colorectal and pancreatic tumors. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CCKBR (Cholecystokinin B Receptor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCKBR include duodenal gastrinoma and agoraphobia. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include phosphatidylinositol phospholipase C activity and cholecystokinin receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is GPR19.	Receptor for gastrin and cholecystokinin. The CKK-B receptors occur throughout the central nervous system where they modulate anxiety, analgesia, arousal, and neuroleptic activity. This receptor mediates its action by association with G proteins that activate a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system	same
CCDC96	empty	CCDC96 (Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 96) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CCL18	This antimicrobial gene is one of several Cys-Cys (CC) cytokine genes clustered on the q arm of chromosome 17. Cytokines are a family of secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. The CC cytokines are proteins characterized by two adjacent cysteines. The cytokine encoded by this gene displays chemotactic activity for naive T cells, CD4+ and CD8+ T cells and nonactivated lymphocytes, but not for monocytes or granulocytes. This chemokine attracts naive T lymphocytes toward dendritic cells and activated macrophages in lymph nodes. It may play a role in both humoral and cell-mediated immunity responses. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	CCL18 (Chemokine (C-C Motif) Ligand 18 (Pulmonary And Activation-Regulated)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCL18 include allergic asthma and pulmonary fibrosis. Among its related pathways are TGF-Beta Pathway and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include chemokine activity.	Chemotactic factor that attracts lymphocytes but not monocytes or granulocytes. May be involved in B-cell migration into B-cell follicles in lymph nodes. Attracts naive T-lymphocytes toward dendritic cells and activated macrophages in lymph nodes, has chemotactic activity for naive T-cells, CD4+ and CD8+ T-cells and thus may play a role in both humoral and cell-mediated immunity responses.	same
CCKAR	This gene encodes a G-protein coupled receptor that binds non-sulfated members of the cholecystokinin (CCK) family of peptide hormones. This receptor is a major physiologic mediator of pancreatic enzyme secretion and smooth muscle contraction of the gallbladder and stomach. In the central and peripheral nervous system this receptor regulates satiety and the release of beta-endorphin and dopamine. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CCKAR (Cholecystokinin A Receptor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCKAR include dyspepsia and paranoid schizophrenia. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include cholecystokinin receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is GPR19.	Receptor for cholecystokinin. Mediates pancreatic growth and enzyme secretion, smooth muscle contraction of the gall bladder and stomach. Has a 1000-fold higher affinity for CCK rather than for gastrin. It modulates feeding and dopamine-induced behavior in the central and peripheral nervous system. This receptor mediates its action by association with G proteins that activate a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system	same
CCL1	This antimicrobial gene is one of several chemokine genes clustered on the q-arm of chromosome 17. Chemokines form a superfamily of secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. The superfamily is divided into four subfamilies based on the arrangement of the N-terminal cysteine residues of the mature peptide. This chemokine, a member of the CC subfamily, is secreted by activated T cells and displays chemotactic activity for monocytes but not for neutrophils. It binds to the chemokine (C-C motif) receptor 8. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	CCL1 (Chemokine (C-C Motif) Ligand 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCL1 include hiv-1. Among its related pathways are TGF-Beta Pathway and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include chemokine activity.	Cytokine that is chemotactic for monocytes but not for neutrophils. Binds to CCR8.	same
CCL21	This antimicrobial gene is one of several CC cytokine genes clustered on the p-arm of chromosome 9. Cytokines are a family of secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. The CC cytokines are proteins characterized by two adjacent cysteines. Similar to other chemokines the protein encoded by this gene inhibits hemopoiesis and stimulates chemotaxis. This protein is chemotactic in vitro for thymocytes and activated T cells, but not for B cells, macrophages, or neutrophils. The cytokine encoded by this gene may also play a role in mediating homing of lymphocytes to secondary lymphoid organs. It is a high affinity functional ligand for chemokine receptor 7 that is expressed on T and B lymphocytes and a known receptor for another member of the cytokine family (small inducible cytokine A19). [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	CCL21 (Chemokine (C-C Motif) Ligand 21) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCL21 include thymic hyperplasia and chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include chemokine activity and CCR7 chemokine receptor binding.	Inhibits hemopoiesis and stimulates chemotaxis. Chemotactic in vitro for thymocytes and activated T-cells, but not for B-cells, macrophages, or neutrophils. Shows preferential activity towards naive T-cells. May play a role in mediating homing of lymphocytes to secondary lymphoid organs. Binds to atypical chemokine receptor ACKR4 and mediates the recruitment of beta-arrestin (ARRB1/2) to ACKR4	same
CCL17	This antimicrobial gene is one of several Cys-Cys (CC) cytokine genes clustered on the q arm of chromosome 16. Cytokines are a family of secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. The CC cytokines are proteins characterized by two adjacent cysteines. The cytokine encoded by this gene displays chemotactic activity for T lymphocytes, but not monocytes or granulocytes. The product of this gene binds to chemokine receptors CCR4 and CCR8. This chemokine plays important roles in T cell development in thymus as well as in trafficking and activation of mature T cells. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	CCL17 (Chemokine (C-C Motif) Ligand 17) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCL17 include mycosis fungoides and paragonimiasis. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and chemokine activity.	Chemotactic factor for T-lymphocytes but not monocytes or granulocytes. May play a role in T-cell development in thymus and in trafficking and activation of mature T-cells. Binds to CCR4.	same
CCK	Cholecystokinin is a brain/gut peptide. In the gut, it induces the release of pancreatic enzymes and the contraction of the gallbladder. In the brain, its physiologic role is unclear. The cholecystokinin pro-hormone is processed by endo- and exo-proteolytic cleavages. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]	CCK (Cholecystokinin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCK include cholecystitis and bladder disease. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include hormone activity and neuropeptide hormone activity.	This peptide hormone induces gall bladder contraction and the release of pancreatic enzymes in the gut. Its function in the brain is not clear. Binding to CCK-A receptors stimulates amylase release from the pancreas, binding to CCK-B receptors stimulates gastric acid secretion	same
CCL16	This gene is one of several cytokine genes clustered on the q-arm of chromosome 17. Cytokines are a family of secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. The CC cytokines are proteins characterized by two adjacent cysteines. The cytokine encoded by this gene displays chemotactic activity for lymphocytes and monocytes but not for neutrophils. This cytokine also shows a potent myelosuppressive activity and suppresses proliferation of myeloid progenitor cells. The expression of this gene is upregulated by IL-10. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CCL16 (Chemokine (C-C Motif) Ligand 16) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include chemokine activity and chemoattractant activity.	Shows chemotactic activity for lymphocytes and monocytes but not neutrophils. Also shows potent myelosuppressive activity, suppresses proliferation of myeloid progenitor cells. Recombinant SCYA16 shows chemotactic activity for monocytes and THP-1 monocytes, but not for resting lymphocytes and neutrophils. Induces a calcium flux in THP-1 cells that were desensitized by prior expression to RANTES	same
CCL23	This gene is one of several chemokine genes clustered on the q-arm of chromosome 17. Chemokines form a superfamily of secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. The superfamily is divided into four subfamilies based on the arrangement of the N-terminal cysteine residues of the mature peptide. This chemokine, a member of the CC subfamily, displays chemotactic activity on resting T lymphocytes and monocytes, lower activity on neutrophils and no activity on activated T lymphocytes. The protein is also a strong suppressor of colony formation by a multipotential hematopoietic progenitor cell line. In addition, the product of this gene is a potent agonist of the chemokine (C-C motif) receptor 1. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]	CCL23 (Chemokine (C-C Motif) Ligand 23) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCL23 include sialadenitis. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include heparin binding and CCR1 chemokine receptor binding.	Shows chemotactic activity for monocytes, resting T-lymphocytes, and neutrophils, but not for activated lymphocytes. Inhibits proliferation of myeloid progenitor cells in colony formation assays. This protein can bind heparin. Binds CCR1. CCL23(19-99), CCL23(22-99), CCL23(27-99), CCL23(30-99) are more potent chemoattractants than the small-inducible cytokine A23.	same
CCL24	This gene belongs to the subfamily of small cytokine CC genes. Cytokines are a family of secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. The CC cytokines are proteins characterized by two adjacent cysteines. The cytokine encoded by this gene displays chemotactic activity on resting T lymphocytes, a minimal activity on neutrophils, and is negative on monocytes and activated T lymphocytes. The protein is also a strong suppressor of colony formation by a multipotential hematopoietic progenitor cell line. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CCL24 (Chemokine (C-C Motif) Ligand 24) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCL24 include giant papillary conjunctivitis and papillary conjunctivitis. Among its related pathways are TGF-Beta Pathway and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include chemokine activity. An important paralog of this gene is CCL2.	Chemotactic for resting T-lymphocytes, and eosinophils. Has lower chemotactic activity for neutrophils but none for monocytes and activated lymphocytes. Is a strong suppressor of colony formation by a multipotential hematopoietic progenitor cell line. Binds to CCR3	same
CCL25	This antimicrobial gene belongs to the subfamily of small cytokine CC genes. Cytokines are a family of secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. The CC cytokines are proteins characterized by two adjacent cysteines. The cytokine encoded by this gene displays chemotactic activity for dendritic cells, thymocytes, and activated macrophages but is inactive on peripheral blood lymphocytes and neutrophils. The product of this gene binds to chemokine receptor CCR9. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	CCL25 (Chemokine (C-C Motif) Ligand 25) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCL25 include obstructive jaundice and allergic asthma. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include hormone activity and CCR10 chemokine receptor binding.	Potentially involved in T-cell development. Recombinant protein shows chemotactic activity on thymocytes, macrophages, THP-1 cells, and dendritics cells but is inactive on peripheral blood lymphocytes and neutrophils. Binds to CCR9. Isoform 2 is an antagonist of isoform 1. Binds to atypical chemokine receptor ACKR4 and mediates the recruitment of beta-arrestin (ARRB1/2) to ACKR4	same
CCL20	This antimicrobial gene belongs to the subfamily of small cytokine CC genes. Cytokines are a family of secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. The CC cytokines are proteins characterized by two adjacent cysteines. The protein encoded by this gene displays chemotactic activity for lymphocytes and can repress proliferation of myeloid progenitors. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	CCL20 (Chemokine (C-C Motif) Ligand 20) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCL20 include smallpox and stromal keratitis. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include chemokine activity.	Chemotactic factor that attracts lymphocytes and, slightly, neutrophils, but not monocytes. Inhibits proliferation of myeloid progenitors in colony formation assays. May be involved in formation and function of the mucosal lymphoid tissues by attracting lymphocytes and dendritic cells towards epithelial cells. C-terminal processed forms have been shown to be equally chemotactically active for leukocytes. Possesses antibacterial activity E.coli ATCC 25922 and S.aureus ATCC 29213.	same
CCL26	This gene is one of two Cys-Cys (CC) cytokine genes clustered on the q arm of chromosome 7. Cytokines are a family of secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. The CC cytokines are proteins characterized by two adjacent cysteines. The cytokine encoded by this gene displays chemotactic activity for normal peripheral blood eosinophils and basophils. The product of this gene is one of three related chemokines that specifically activate chemokine receptor CCR3. This chemokine may contribute to the eosinophil accumulation in atopic diseases. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CCL26 (Chemokine (C-C Motif) Ligand 26) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCL26 include esophagitis and heart tumor. Among its related pathways are TGF-Beta Pathway and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include chemokine activity.	Chemotactic for eosinophils and basophils. Binds to CCR3	same
CCL3L3	This gene is one of several cytokine genes that are clustered on the q-arm of chromosome 17. Cytokines are a family of secreted proteins that function in inflammatory and immunoregulatory processes. The protein encoded by this gene binds to several chemokine receptors, including chemokine binding protein 2 and chemokine (C-C motif) receptor 5 (CCR5). CCR5 is a co-receptor for HIV, and binding of this protein to CCR5 inhibits HIV entry. The copy number of this gene varies among individuals, where most individuals have one to six copies, and a minority of individuals have zero or more than six copies. There are conflicting reports about copy number variation of this gene and its correlation to disease susceptibility.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2014]	CCL3L3 (Chemokine (C-C Motif) Ligand 3-Like 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCL3L3 include hiv-1. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include chemokine activity.	Chemotactic for lymphocytes and monocytes. Is a ligand for CCR1, CCR3 and CCR5. Is an inhibitor of HIV-1-infection. The processed form LD78-beta(3-70) shows a 20-fold to 30-fold higher chemotactic activity and is a very potent inhibitor of HIV-1-infection. LD78-beta(3-70) is also a ligand for CCR1, CCR3 and CCR5.	same
CCL2	This gene is one of several cytokine genes clustered on the q-arm of chromosome 17. Chemokines are a superfamily of secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. The superfamily is divided into four subfamilies based on the arrangement of N-terminal cysteine residues of the mature peptide. This chemokine is a member of the CC subfamily which is characterized by two adjacent cysteine residues. This cytokine displays chemotactic activity for monocytes and basophils but not for neutrophils or eosinophils. It has been implicated in the pathogenesis of diseases characterized by monocytic infiltrates, like psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis and atherosclerosis. It binds to chemokine receptors CCR2 and CCR4. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]	CCL2 (Chemokine (C-C Motif) Ligand 2) is a Protein Coding gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class. Diseases associated with CCL2 include tuberculosis and hiv-1. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and heparin binding. An important paralog of this gene is CCL8.	Chemotactic factor that attracts monocytes and basophils but not neutrophils or eosinophils. Augments monocyte anti-tumor activity. Has been implicated in the pathogenesis of diseases characterized by monocytic infiltrates, like psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis or atherosclerosis. May be involved in the recruitment of monocytes into the arterial wall during the disease process of atherosclerosis	same
CCL22	This antimicrobial gene is one of several Cys-Cys (CC) cytokine genes clustered on the q arm of chromosome 16. Cytokines are a family of secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. The CC cytokines are proteins characterized by two adjacent cysteines. The cytokine encoded by this gene displays chemotactic activity for monocytes, dendritic cells, natural killer cells and for chronically activated T lymphocytes. It also displays a mild activity for primary activated T lymphocytes and has no chemoattractant activity for neutrophils, eosinophils and resting T lymphocytes. The product of this gene binds to chemokine receptor CCR4. This chemokine may play a role in the trafficking of activated T lymphocytes to inflammatory sites and other aspects of activated T lymphocyte physiology. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	CCL22 (Chemokine (C-C Motif) Ligand 22) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCL22 include atopic keratoconjunctivitis and mycosis fungoides. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include chemokine activity.	May play a role in the trafficking of activated/effector T-lymphocytes to inflammatory sites and other aspects of activated T-lymphocyte physiology. Chemotactic for monocytes, dendritic cells and natural killer cells. Mild chemoattractant for primary activated T-lymphocytes and a potent chemoattractant for chronically activated T-lymphocytes but has no chemoattractant activity for neutrophils, eosinophils, and resting T-lymphocytes. Binds to CCR4. Processed forms MDC(3-69), MDC(5-69) and MDC(7-69) seem not be active	same
CCL14	This gene, chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 14, is one of several CC cytokine genes clustered on 17q11.2. The CC cytokines are secreted proteins characterized by two adjacent cysteines. The cytokine encoded by this gene induces changes in intracellular calcium concentration and enzyme release in monocytes. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. Read-through transcripts are also expressed that include exons from the upstream cytokine gene, chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 15, and are represented as GeneID: 348249. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]	CCL14 (Chemokine (C-C Motif) Ligand 14) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are TGF-Beta Pathway and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include chemokine activity.	Has weak activities on human monocytes and acts via receptors that also recognize MIP-1 alpha. It induced intracellular Ca(2+) changes and enzyme release, but no chemotaxis, at concentrations of 100-1,000 nM, and was inactive on T-lymphocytes, neutrophils, and eosinophil leukocytes. Enhances the proliferation of CD34 myeloid progenitor cells. The processed form HCC-1(9-74) is a chemotactic factor that attracts monocytes eosinophils, and T-cells and is a ligand for CCR1, CCR3 and CCR5.	same
CCL28	This antimicrobial gene belongs to the subfamily of small cytokine CC genes. Cytokines are a family of secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. The CC cytokines are proteins characterized by two adjacent cysteines. The cytokine encoded by this gene displays chemotactic activity for resting CD4 or CD8 T cells and eosinophils. The product of this gene binds to chemokine receptors CCR3 and CCR10. This chemokine may play a role in the physiology of extracutaneous epithelial tissues, including diverse mucosal organs. Multiple transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	CCL28 (Chemokine (C-C Motif) Ligand 28) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include chemokine activity. An important paralog of this gene is CCL27.	Chemotactic activity for resting CD4, CD8 T-cells and eosinophils. Binds to CCR3 and CCR10 and induces calcium mobilization in a dose-dependent manner	same
CCL3L1	This gene is one of several cytokine genes that are clustered on the q-arm of chromosome 17. Cytokines are a family of secreted proteins that function in inflammatory and immunoregulatory processes. The protein encoded by this gene binds to several chemokine receptors, including chemokine binding protein 2 and chemokine (C-C motif) receptor 5 (CCR5). CCR5 is a co-receptor for HIV, and binding of this protein to CCR5 inhibits HIV entry. The copy number of this gene varies among individuals, where most individuals have one to six copies, and a minority of individuals have zero or more than six copies. There are conflicting reports about copy number variation of this gene and its correlation to disease susceptibility. This record represents one of two copies that are present on the ALT_REF_LOCI_2 alternate haplotype of the GRCh38 human reference genome assembly. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2014]	CCL3L1 (Chemokine (C-C Motif) Ligand 3-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCL3L1 include acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and hiv-1. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and TGF-Beta Pathway.	Chemotactic for lymphocytes and monocytes. Is a ligand for CCR1, CCR3 and CCR5. Is an inhibitor of HIV-1-infection. The processed form LD78-beta(3-70) shows a 20-fold to 30-fold higher chemotactic activity and is a very potent inhibitor of HIV-1-infection. LD78-beta(3-70) is also a ligand for CCR1, CCR3 and CCR5.	same
CCL4	The protein encoded by this gene is a mitogen-inducible monokine and is one of the major HIV-suppressive factors produced by CD8+ T-cells. The encoded protein is secreted and has chemokinetic and inflammatory functions. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]	CCL4 (Chemokine (C-C Motif) Ligand 4) is a Protein Coding gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class. Diseases associated with CCL4 include stachybotrys chartarum and retinal vasculitis. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and chemokine activity.	Monokine with inflammatory and chemokinetic properties. Binds to CCR5. One of the major HIV-suppressive factors produced by CD8+ T-cells. Recombinant MIP-1-beta induces a dose-dependent inhibition of different strains of HIV-1, HIV-2, and simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV). The processed form MIP-1-beta(3-69) retains the abilities to induce down-modulation of surface expression of the chemokine receptor CCR5 and to inhibit the CCR5-mediated entry of HIV-1 in T-cells. MIP-1-beta(3-69) is also a ligand for CCR1 and CCR2 isoform B.	same
CCL27	This gene is one of several CC cytokine genes clustered on the p-arm of chromosome 9. Cytokines are a family of secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. The CC cytokines are proteins characterized by two adjacent cysteines. The protein encoded by this gene is chemotactic for skin-associated memory T lymphocytes. This cytokine may also play a role in mediating homing of lymphocytes to cutaneous sites. It specifically binds to chemokine receptor 10 (CCR10). Studies of a similar murine protein indicate that these protein-receptor interactions have a pivotal role in T cell-mediated skin inflammation. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	CCL27 (Chemokine (C-C Motif) Ligand 27) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCL27 include chronic recurrent multifocal osteomyelitis and hypophosphatasia. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include chemokine activity. An important paralog of this gene is CCL28.	Chemotactic factor that attracts skin-associated memory T-lymphocytes. May play a role in mediating homing of lymphocytes to cutaneous sites. Binds to CCR10	same
CCL3	This locus represents a small inducible cytokine. The encoded protein, also known as macrophage inflammatory protein 1 alpha, plays a role in inflammatory responses through binding to the receptors CCR1, CCR4 and CCR5. Polymorphisms at this locus may be associated with both resistance and susceptibility to infection by human immunodeficiency virus type 1.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]	CCL3 (Chemokine (C-C Motif) Ligand 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCL3 include chromoblastomycosis and hiv-1. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and chemokine activity.	Monokine with inflammatory and chemokinetic properties. Binds to CCR1, CCR4 and CCR5. One of the major HIV-suppressive factors produced by CD8+ T-cells. Recombinant MIP-1-alpha induces a dose-dependent inhibition of different strains of HIV-1, HIV-2, and simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV).	same
CCL8	This antimicrobial gene is one of several chemokine genes clustered on the q-arm of chromosome 17. Chemokines form a superfamily of secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. The superfamily is divided into four subfamilies based on the arrangement of N-terminal cysteine residues of the mature peptide. This chemokine is a member of the CC subfamily which is characterized by two adjacent cysteine residues. This cytokine displays chemotactic activity for monocytes, lymphocytes, basophils and eosinophils. By recruiting leukocytes to sites of inflammation this cytokine may contribute to tumor-associated leukocyte infiltration and to the antiviral state against HIV infection. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	CCL8 (Chemokine (C-C Motif) Ligand 8) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCL8 include diffuse gastric cancer and cholera. Among its related pathways are TGF-Beta Pathway and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase activity and chemokine activity. An important paralog of this gene is CCL2.	Chemotactic factor that attracts monocytes, lymphocytes, basophils and eosinophils. May play a role in neoplasia and inflammatory host responses. This protein can bind heparin. The processed form MCP-2(6-76) does not show monocyte chemotactic activity, but inhibits the chemotactic effect most predominantly of CCL7, and also of CCL2 and CCL5 and CCL8.	same
CCL5	This gene is one of several chemokine genes clustered on the q-arm of chromosome 17. Chemokines form a superfamily of secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. The superfamily is divided into four subfamilies based on the arrangement of the N-terminal cysteine residues of the mature peptide. This chemokine, a member of the CC subfamily, functions as a chemoattractant for blood monocytes, memory T helper cells and eosinophils. It causes the release of histamine from basophils and activates eosinophils. This cytokine is one of the major HIV-suppressive factors produced by CD8+ cells. It functions as one of the natural ligands for the chemokine receptor chemokine (C-C motif) receptor 5 (CCR5), and it suppresses in vitro replication of the R5 strains of HIV-1, which use CCR5 as a coreceptor. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]	CCL5 (Chemokine (C-C Motif) Ligand 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCL5 include ulcer of lower limbs and african tick-bite fever. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and chemokine activity.	Chemoattractant for blood monocytes, memory T-helper cells and eosinophils. Causes the release of histamine from basophils and activates eosinophils. May activate several chemokine receptors including CCR1, CCR3, CCR4 and CCR5. One of the major HIV-suppressive factors produced by CD8+ T-cells. Recombinant RANTES protein induces a dose-dependent inhibition of different strains of HIV-1, HIV-2, and simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV). The processed form RANTES(3-68) acts as a natural chemotaxis inhibitor and is a more potent inhibitor of HIV-1-infection. The second processed form RANTES(4-68) exhibits reduced chemotactic and HIV-suppressive activity compared with RANTES(1-68) and RANTES(3-68) and is generated by an unidentified enzyme associated with monocytes and neutrophils (PubMed:16791620, PubMed:1380064, PubMed:8525373, PubMed:9516414, PubMed:15923218). May also be an agonist of the G protein-coupled receptor GPR75, stimulating inositol trisphosphate production and calcium mobilization through its activation. Together with GPR75, may play a role in neuron survival through activation of a downstream signaling pathway involving the PI3, Akt and MAP kinases. By activating GPR75 may also play a role in insulin secretion by islet cells (PubMed:23979485).	same
CCL7	This gene encodes monocyte chemotactic protein 3, a secreted chemokine which attracts macrophages during inflammation and metastasis. It is a member of the C-C subfamily of chemokines which are characterized by having two adjacent cysteine residues. The protein is an in vivo substrate of matrix metalloproteinase 2, an enzyme which degrades components of the extracellular matrix. This gene is part of a cluster of C-C chemokine family members on chromosome 17q. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CCL7 (Chemokine (C-C Motif) Ligand 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCL7 include demyelinating disease and nephrogenic systemic fibrosis. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include heparin binding and CCR1 chemokine receptor binding. An important paralog of this gene is CCL2.	Chemotactic factor that attracts monocytes and eosinophils, but not neutrophils. Augments monocyte anti-tumor activity. Also induces the release of gelatinase B. This protein can bind heparin. Binds to CCR1, CCR2 and CCR3	same
CCNA1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclin family, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in protein abundance through the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators of CDK kinases. Different cyclins exhibit distinct expression and degradation patterns which contribute to the temporal coordination of each mitotic event. The cyclin encoded by this gene was shown to be expressed in testis and brain, as well as in several leukemic cell lines, and is thought to primarily function in the control of the germline meiotic cell cycle. This cyclin binds both CDK2 and CDC2 kinases, which give two distinct kinase activities, one appearing in S phase, the other in G2, and thus regulate separate functions in cell cycle. This cyclin was found to bind to important cell cycle regulators, such as Rb family proteins, transcription factor E2F-1, and the p21 family proteins. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CCNA1 (Cyclin A1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Pathways in cancer and GPCR Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding. An important paralog of this gene is CCND2.	May be involved in the control of the cell cycle at the G1/S (start) and G2/M (mitosis) transitions. May primarily function in the control of the germline meiotic cell cycle and additionally in the control of mitotic cell cycle in some somatic cells.	same
CCNA2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclin family, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in protein abundance through the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators of CDK kinases. Different cyclins exhibit distinct expression and degradation patterns which contribute to the temporal coordination of each mitotic event. In contrast to cyclin A1, which is present only in germ cells, this cyclin is expressed in all tissues tested. This cyclin binds and activates CDC2 or CDK2 kinases, and thus promotes both cell cycle G1/S and G2/M transitions. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CCNA2 (Cyclin A2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCNA2 include tenosynovial giant cell tumor and benign meningioma. Among its related pathways are GPCR Pathway and GPCR Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding. An important paralog of this gene is CCND2.	Essential for the control of the cell cycle at the G1/S (start) and the G2/M (mitosis) transitions	same
CCNB3	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclin family, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in protein abundance through the cell cycle. Cyclins function as positive regulators of cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs), and thereby play an essential role in the control of the cell cycle. Different cyclins exhibit distinct expression and degradation patterns, which contribute to the temporal coordination of each mitotic event. Studies of similar genes in chicken and drosophila suggest that this cyclin may associate with CDC2 and CDK2 kinases, and may be required for proper spindle reorganization and restoration of the interphase nucleus. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]	CCNB3 (Cyclin B3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are GPCR Pathway and GPCR Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding. An important paralog of this gene is CCND2.	Cyclins are positive regulatory subunits of the cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs), and thereby play an essential role in the control of the cell cycle, notably via their destruction during cell division. Its tissue specificity suggest that it may be required during early meiotic prophase I.	same
CCNC	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the cyclin family of proteins. The encoded protein interacts with cyclin-dependent kinase 8 and induces the phophorylation of the carboxy-terminal domain of the large subunit of RNA polymerase II. The level of mRNAs for this gene peaks in the G1 phase of the cell cycle. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CCNC (Cyclin C) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding. An important paralog of this gene is CCNT1.	Component of the Mediator complex, a coactivator involved in regulated gene transcription of nearly all RNA polymerase II-dependent genes. Mediator functions as a bridge to convey information from gene-specific regulatory proteins to the basal RNA polymerase II transcription machinery. Mediator is recruited to promoters by direct interactions with regulatory proteins and serves as a scaffold for the assembly of a functional preinitiation complex with RNA polymerase II and the general transcription factors. Binds to and activates cyclin-dependent kinase CDK8 that phosphorylates the CTD (C-terminal domain) of the large subunit of RNA polymerase II (RNAp II), which may inhibit the formation of a transcription initiation complex.	same
CCND2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclin family, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in protein abundance through the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators of CDK kinases. Different cyclins exhibit distinct expression and degradation patterns which contribute to the temporal coordination of each mitotic event. This cyclin forms a complex with CDK4 or CDK6 and functions as a regulatory subunit of the complex, whose activity is required for cell cycle G1/S transition. This protein has been shown to interact with and be involved in the phosphorylation of tumor suppressor protein Rb. Knockout studies of the homologous gene in mouse suggest the essential roles of this gene in ovarian granulosa and germ cell proliferation. High level expression of this gene was observed in ovarian and testicular tumors. Mutations in this gene are associated with megalencephaly-polymicrogyria-polydactyly-hydrocephalus syndrome 3 (MPPH3). [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	CCND2 (Cyclin D2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCND2 include megalencephaly-polymicrogyria-polydactyly-hydrocephalus syndrome 3 and megalencephaly - polymicrogyria - postaxial polydactyly - hydrocephalus. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding. An important paralog of this gene is CCNA1.	Regulatory component of the cyclin D2-CDK4 (DC) complex that phosphorylates and inhibits members of the retinoblastoma (RB) protein family including RB1 and regulates the cell-cycle during G(1)/S transition. Phosphorylation of RB1 allows dissociation of the transcription factor E2F from the RB/E2F complex and the subsequent transcription of E2F target genes which are responsible for the progression through the G(1) phase. Hypophosphorylates RB1 in early G(1) phase. Cyclin D-CDK4 complexes are major integrators of various mitogenenic and antimitogenic signals. Also substrate for SMAD3, phosphorylating SMAD3 in a cell-cycle-dependent manner and repressing its transcriptional activity. Component of the ternary complex, cyclin D2/CDK4/CDKN1B, required for nuclear translocation and activity of the cyclin D-CDK4 complex (By similarity).	same
CCND3	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclin family, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in protein abundance through the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators of CDK kinases. Different cyclins exhibit distinct expression and degradation patterns which contribute to the temporal coordination of each mitotic event. This cyclin forms a complex with and functions as a regulatory subunit of CDK4 or CDK6, whose activtiy is required for cell cycle G1/S transition. This protein has been shown to interact with and be involved in the phosphorylation of tumor suppressor protein Rb. The CDK4 activity associated with this cyclin was reported to be necessary for cell cycle progression through G2 phase into mitosis after UV radiation. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]	CCND3 (Cyclin D3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCND3 include bladder carcinoma in situ and myeloma. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and L1CAM interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CCND2.	Regulatory component of the cyclin D3-CDK4 (DC) complex that phosphorylates and inhibits members of the retinoblastoma (RB) protein family including RB1 and regulates the cell-cycle during G(1)/S transition. Phosphorylation of RB1 allows dissociation of the transcription factor E2F from the RB/E2F complex and the subsequent transcription of E2F target genes which are responsible for the progression through the G(1) phase. Hypophosphorylates RB1 in early G(1) phase. Cyclin D-CDK4 complexes are major integrators of various mitogenenic and antimitogenic signals. Also substrate for SMAD3, phosphorylating SMAD3 in a cell-cycle-dependent manner and repressing its transcriptional activity. Component of the ternary complex, cyclin D3/CDK4/CDKN1B, required for nuclear translocation and activity of the cyclin D-CDK4 complex.	same
CCNB2	Cyclin B2 is a member of the cyclin family, specifically the B-type cyclins. The B-type cyclins, B1 and B2, associate with p34cdc2 and are essential components of the cell cycle regulatory machinery. B1 and B2 differ in their subcellular localization. Cyclin B1 co-localizes with microtubules, whereas cyclin B2 is primarily associated with the Golgi region. Cyclin B2 also binds to transforming growth factor beta RII and thus cyclin B2/cdc2 may play a key role in transforming growth factor beta-mediated cell cycle control. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CCNB2 (Cyclin B2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCNB2 include cartilage-hair hypoplasia. Among its related pathways are GPCR Pathway and GPCR Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding. An important paralog of this gene is CCND2.	Essential for the control of the cell cycle at the G2/M (mitosis) transition	same
CCNE2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclin family, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in protein abundance through the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators of CDK kinases. Different cyclins exhibit distinct expression and degradation patterns which contribute to the temporal coordination of each mitotic event. This cyclin forms a complex with and functions as a regulatory subunit of CDK2. This cyclin has been shown to specifically interact with CIP/KIP family of CDK inhibitors, and plays a role in cell cycle G1/S transition. The expression of this gene peaks at the G1-S phase and exhibits a pattern of tissue specificity distinct from that of cyclin E1. A significantly increased expression level of this gene was observed in tumor-derived cells. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CCNE2 (Cyclin E2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Pathways in cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase regulator activity. An important paralog of this gene is CCND2.	Essential for the control of the cell cycle at the late G1 and early S phase	same
CCNE1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclin family, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in protein abundance through the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators of CDK kinases. Different cyclins exhibit distinct expression and degradation patterns which contribute to the temporal coordination of each mitotic event. This cyclin forms a complex with and functions as a regulatory subunit of CDK2, whose activity is required for cell cycle G1/S transition. This protein accumulates at the G1-S phase boundary and is degraded as cells progress through S phase. Overexpression of this gene has been observed in many tumors, which results in chromosome instability, and thus may contribute to tumorigenesis. This protein was found to associate with, and be involved in, the phosphorylation of NPAT protein (nuclear protein mapped to the ATM locus), which participates in cell-cycle regulated histone gene expression and plays a critical role in promoting cell-cycle progression in the absence of pRB. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene, which encode distinct isoforms, have been described. Two additional splice variants were reported but detailed nucleotide sequence information is not yet available. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CCNE1 (Cyclin E1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCNE1 include chronic endophthalmitis and phlyctenulosis. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Pathways in cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CCND2.	Essential for the control of the cell cycle at the G1/S (start) transition.	same
CCNB1	The protein encoded by this gene is a regulatory protein involved in mitosis. The gene product complexes with p34(cdc2) to form the maturation-promoting factor (MPF). Two alternative transcripts have been found, a constitutively expressed transcript and a cell cycle-regulated transcript, that is expressed predominantly during G2/M phase. The different transcripts result from the use of alternate transcription initiation sites. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CCNB1 (Cyclin B1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCNB1 include adrenal carcinoma and tetraploidy. Among its related pathways are GPCR Pathway and GPCR Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and patched binding. An important paralog of this gene is CCND2.	Essential for the control of the cell cycle at the G2/M (mitosis) transition.	same
CCNI2	empty	CCNI2 (Cyclin I Family, Member 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding. An important paralog of this gene is CCNI.	empty	same
CCNG2	The eukaryotic cell cycle is governed by cyclin-dependent protein kinases (CDKs) whose activities are regulated by cyclins and CDK inhibitors. The 8 species of cyclins reported in mammals, cyclins A through H, share a conserved amino acid sequence of about 90 residues called the cyclin box. The amino acid sequence of cyclin G is well conserved among mammals. The nucleotide sequence of cyclin G1 and cyclin G2 are 53% identical. Unlike cyclin G1, cyclin G2 contains a C-terminal PEST protein destabilization motif, suggesting that cyclin G2 expression is tightly regulated through the cell cycle. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CCNG2 (Cyclin G2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCNG2 include thyroid lymphoma. Among its related pathways are FoxO signaling pathway and Wnt Signaling Pathway (WikiPathways). An important paralog of this gene is CCNI.	May play a role in growth regulation and in negative regulation of cell cycle progession	same
CCNG1	The eukaryotic cell cycle is governed by cyclin-dependent protein kinases (CDKs) whose activities are regulated by cyclins and CDK inhibitors. The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the cyclin family and contains the cyclin box. The encoded protein lacks the protein destabilizing (PEST) sequence that is present in other family members. Transcriptional activation of this gene can be induced by tumor protein p53. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CCNG1 (Cyclin G1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCNG1 include mantle cell lymphoma and pancreatic cancer. Among its related pathways are GPCR Pathway and GPCR Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protein domain specific binding. An important paralog of this gene is CCNI.	May play a role in growth regulation. Is associated with G2/M phase arrest in response to DNA damage. May be an intermediate by which p53 mediates its role as an inhibitor of cellular proliferation (By similarity).	same
CCL4L2	This gene is one of several cytokine genes that are clustered on the q-arm of chromosome 17. Cytokines are a family of secreted proteins that function in inflammatory and immunoregulatory processes. The protein encoded by this family member is similar to the chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 4 product, which inhibits HIV entry by binding to the cellular receptor CCR5. The copy number of this gene varies among individuals, where most individuals have one to five copies. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2014]	CCL4L2 (Chemokine (C-C Motif) Ligand 4-Like 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Akt Signaling and Akt Signaling.	Chemokine that induces chemotaxis of cells expressing CCR5 or CCR1. Inhibits HIV replication in peripheral blood monocytes that express CCR5.	same
CCNF	This gene encodes a member of the cyclin family. Cyclins are important regulators of cell cycle transitions through their ability to bind and activate cyclin-dependent protein kinases. This member also belongs to the F-box protein family which is characterized by an approximately 40 amino acid motif, the F-box. The F-box proteins constitute one of the four subunits of the ubiquitin protein ligase complex called SCFs (SKP1-cullin-F-box), which function in phosphorylation-dependent ubiquitination. The F-box proteins are divided into 3 classes: Fbws containing WD-40 domains, Fbls containing leucine-rich repeats, and Fbxs containing either different protein-protein interaction modules or no recognizable motifs. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Fbxs class and it was one of the first proteins in which the F-box motif was identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CCNF (Cyclin F) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCNF include necrotizing fasciitis. Among its related pathways are GPCR Pathway and GADD45 Pathway.	Substrate recognition component of a SCF (SKP1-CUL1-F-box protein) E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex which mediates the ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of CP110 during G2 phase, thereby acting as an inhibitor of centrosome reduplication.	same
CCND1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclin family, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in protein abundance throughout the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators of CDK kinases. Different cyclins exhibit distinct expression and degradation patterns which contribute to the temporal coordination of each mitotic event. This cyclin forms a complex with and functions as a regulatory subunit of CDK4 or CDK6, whose activity is required for cell cycle G1/S transition. This protein has been shown to interact with tumor suppressor protein Rb and the expression of this gene is regulated positively by Rb. Mutations, amplification and overexpression of this gene, which alters cell cycle progression, are observed frequently in a variety of tumors and may contribute to tumorigenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CCND1 (Cyclin D1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCND1 include multiple myeloma and mantle cell lymphoma. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Glioma. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and protein kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CCND2.	Regulatory component of the cyclin D1-CDK4 (DC) complex that phosphorylates and inhibits members of the retinoblastoma (RB) protein family including RB1 and regulates the cell-cycle during G(1)/S transition. Phosphorylation of RB1 allows dissociation of the transcription factor E2F from the RB/E2F complex and the subsequent transcription of E2F target genes which are responsible for the progression through the G(1) phase. Hypophosphorylates RB1 in early G(1) phase. Cyclin D-CDK4 complexes are major integrators of various mitogenenic and antimitogenic signals. Also substrate for SMAD3, phosphorylating SMAD3 in a cell-cycle-dependent manner and repressing its transcriptional activity. Component of the ternary complex, cyclin D1/CDK4/CDKN1B, required for nuclear translocation and activity of the cyclin D-CDK4 complex. Exhibits transcriptional corepressor activity with INSM1 on the NEUROD1 and INS promoters in a cell cycle-independent manner.	same
CCNH	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclin family, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in protein abundance through the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators of CDK kinases. Different cyclins exhibit distinct expression and degradation patterns which contribute to the temporal coordination of each mitotic event. This cyclin forms a complex with CDK7 kinase and ring finger protein MAT1. The kinase complex is able to phosphorylate CDK2 and CDC2 kinases, thus functions as a CDK-activating kinase (CAK). This cyclin and its kinase partner are components of TFIIH, as well as RNA polymerase II protein complexes. They participate in two different transcriptional regulation processes, suggesting an important link between basal transcription control and the cell cycle machinery. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome 4. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]	CCNH (Cyclin H) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Disease and GPCR Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and RNA polymerase II carboxy-terminal domain kinase activity.	Regulates CDK7, the catalytic subunit of the CDK-activating kinase (CAK) enzymatic complex. CAK activates the cyclin-associated kinases CDK1, CDK2, CDK4 and CDK6 by threonine phosphorylation. CAK complexed to the core-TFIIH basal transcription factor activates RNA polymerase II by serine phosphorylation of the repetitive C-terminal domain (CTD) of its large subunit (POLR2A), allowing its escape from the promoter and elongation of the transcripts. Involved in cell cycle control and in RNA transcription by RNA polymerase II. Its expression and activity are constant throughout the cell cycle.	same
CCNI	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclin family, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in protein abundance through the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators of CDK kinases. Different cyclins exhibit distinct expression and degradation patterns which contribute to the temporal coordination of each mitotic event. This cyclin shows the highest similarity with cyclin G. The transcript of this gene was found to be expressed constantly during cell cycle progression. The function of this cyclin has not yet been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CCNI (Cyclin I) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein. An important paralog of this gene is CCNI2.	empty	same
CCNJL	empty	CCNJL (Cyclin J-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CCNJ.	empty	same
CCNDBP1	This gene was identified by the interaction of its gene product with Grap2, a leukocyte-specific adaptor protein important for immune cell signaling. The protein encoded by this gene was shown to interact with cyclin D. Transfection of this gene in cells was reported to reduce the phosphorylation of Rb gene product by cyclin D-dependent protein kinase, and inhibit E2F1-mediated transcription activity. This protein was also found to interact with helix-loop-helix protein E12 and is thought to be a negative regulator of liver-specific gene expression. Several alternatively spliced variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2009]	CCNDBP1 (Cyclin D-Type Binding-Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCNDBP1 include optic disk drusen.	May negatively regulate cell cycle progression. May act at least in part via inhibition of the cyclin-D1/CDK4 complex, thereby preventing phosphorylation of RB1 and blocking E2F-dependent transcription.	same
CCNJ	empty	CCNJ (Cyclin J) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CCNJL.	empty	same
CCM2	This gene encodes a scaffold protein that functions in the stress-activated p38 Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling cascade. The protein interacts with SMAD specific E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 1 (also known as SMURF1) via a phosphotyrosine binding domain to promote RhoA degradation. The protein is required for normal cytoskeletal structure, cell-cell interactions, and lumen formation in endothelial cells. Mutations in this gene result in cerebral cavernous malformations. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]	CCM2 (Cerebral Cavernous Malformation 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCM2 include cerebral cavernous malformations-2 and familial cerebral cavernous malformation 2. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Akt Signaling. An important paralog of this gene is CCM2L.	Component of the CCM signaling pathway which is a crucial regulator of heart and vessel formation and integrity. May act through the stabilization of endothelial cell junctions (By similarity). May function as a scaffold protein for MAP2K3-MAP3K3 signaling. Seems to play a major role in the modulation of MAP3K3-dependent p38 activation induced by hyperosmotic shock (By similarity).	same
CCNL1	empty	CCNL1 (Cyclin L1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding. An important paralog of this gene is CCNT1.	Transcriptional regulator which participates in regulating the pre-mRNA splicing process. Seems to be involved in the regulation of RNA polymerase II (pol II). Functions in association with cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) and has a role in the second step of splicing. May be a candidate proto-oncogene in head and neck squamous cell carcinomas (HNSCC). Inhibited by the CDK-specific inhibitor p21.	same
CCNO	This gene encodes a member of the cyclin protein family, and the encoded protein is involved in regulation of the cell cycle. Disruption of this gene is associated with primary ciliary dyskinesia-19. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. This gene, which has a previous symbol of UNG2, was erroneously identified as a uracil DNA glycosylase in PubMed ID: 2001396. A later publication, PubMed ID: 8419333, identified this gene's product as a cyclin protein family member. The UNG2 symbol is also used as a specific protein isoform name for the UNG gene (GeneID 7374), so confusion exists in the scientific literature and in some databases for these two genes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]	CCNO (Cyclin O) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCNO include ciliary diskinesia, primary, 29 and hiv-1. Among its related pathways are Chks in Checkpoint Regulation and DNA Repair. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and uracil DNA N-glycosylase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CCND2.	Specifically required for generation of multiciliated cells, possibly by promoting a cell cycle state compatible with centriole amplification and maturation. Acts downstream of MCIDAS to promote mother centriole amplification and maturation in preparation for apical docking.	same
CCNL2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the cyclin family. Through its interaction with several proteins, such as RNA polymerase II, splicing factors, and cyclin-dependent kinases, this protein functions as a regulator of the pre-mRNA splicing process, as well as in inducing apoptosis by modulating the expression of apoptotic and antiapoptotic proteins. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	CCNL2 (Cyclin L2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCNL2 include star syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding. An important paralog of this gene is CCNT1.	Transcriptional regulator which participates in regulating the pre-mRNA splicing process. Also modulates the expression of critical apoptotic factor, leading to cell apoptosis.	same
CCNT1	This gene encodes a member of the highly conserved cyclin C subfamily. The encoded protein tightly associates with cyclin-dependent kinase 9, and is a major subunit of positive transcription elongation factor b (p-TEFb). In humans, there are multiple forms of positive transcription elongation factor b, which may include one of several different cyclins along with cyclin-dependent kinase 9. The complex containing the encoded cyclin and cyclin-dependent kinase 9 acts as a cofactor of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) Tat protein, and is both necessary and sufficient for full activation of viral transcription. This cyclin and its kinase partner are also involved in triggering transcript elongation through phosphorylation of the carboxy-terminal domain of the largest RNA polymerase II subunit. Overexpression of this gene is implicated in tumor growth. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2013]	CCNT1 (Cyclin T1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCNT1 include hiv-1. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include chromatin binding and transcription regulatory region DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is CCNT2.	Regulatory subunit of the cyclin-dependent kinase pair (CDK9/cyclin-T1) complex, also called positive transcription elongation factor B (P-TEFb), which is proposed to facilitate the transition from abortive to productive elongation by phosphorylating the CTD (carboxy-terminal domain) of the large subunit of RNA polymerase II (RNA Pol II). In case of HIV or SIV infections, binds to the transactivation domain of the viral nuclear transcriptional activator, Tat, thereby increasing Tats affinity for the transactivating response RNA element (TAR RNA). Serves as an essential cofactor for Tat, by promoting RNA Pol II activation, allowing transcription of viral genes.	same
CCNYL1	empty	CCNYL1 (Cyclin Y-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding. An important paralog of this gene is CCNY.	empty	same
CCNT2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclin family, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in protein abundance through the cell cycle. Cyclins function as regulators of CDK kinases. Different cyclins exhibit distinct expression and degradation patterns which contribute to the temporal coordination of each mitotic event. This cyclin and its kinase partner CDK9 were found to be subunits of the transcription elongation factor p-TEFb. The p-TEFb complex containing this cyclin was reported to interact with, and act as a negative regulator of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) Tat protein. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome 1. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]	CCNT2 (Cyclin T2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCNT2 include hiv-1. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding. An important paralog of this gene is CCNT1.	Regulatory subunit of the cyclin-dependent kinase pair (CDK9/cyclin T) complex, also called positive transcription elongation factor B (P-TEFB), which is proposed to facilitate the transition from abortive to production elongation by phosphorylating the CTD (carboxy-terminal domain) of the large subunit of RNA polymerase II (RNAP II).	same
CCR10	Chemokines are a group of small (approximately 8 to 14 kD), mostly basic, structurally related molecules that regulate cell trafficking of various types of leukocytes through interactions with a subset of 7-transmembrane, G protein-coupled receptors. Chemokines also play fundamental roles in the development, homeostasis, and function of the immune system, and they have effects on cells of the central nervous system as well as on endothelial cells involved in angiogenesis or angiostasis. Chemokines are divided into 2 major subfamilies, CXC and CC, based on the arrangement of the first 2 of the 4 conserved cysteine residues; the 2 cysteines are separated by a single amino acid in CXC chemokines and are adjacent in CC chemokines. CCR10 is the receptor for CCL27 (SCYA27; MIM 604833); CCR10-CCL27 interactions are involved in T cell-mediated skin inflammation (Homey et al., 2002 [PubMed 11821900]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CCR10 (Chemokine (C-C Motif) Receptor 10) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCR10 include pthirus pubis infestation. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include G-protein coupled receptor activity and C-C chemokine receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CCR7.	Receptor for chemokines SCYA27 and SCYA28. Subsequently transduces a signal by increasing the intracellular calcium ions level and stimulates chemotaxis in a pre-B cell line	same
CCR5	This gene encodes a member of the beta chemokine receptor family, which is predicted to be a seven transmembrane protein similar to G protein-coupled receptors. This protein is expressed by T cells and macrophages, and is known to be an important co-receptor for macrophage-tropic virus, including HIV, to enter host cells. Defective alleles of this gene have been associated with the HIV infection resistance. The ligands of this receptor include monocyte chemoattractant protein 2 (MCP-2), macrophage inflammatory protein 1 alpha (MIP-1 alpha), macrophage inflammatory protein 1 beta (MIP-1 beta) and regulated on activation normal T expressed and secreted protein (RANTES). Expression of this gene was also detected in a promyeloblastic cell line, suggesting that this protein may play a role in granulocyte lineage proliferation and differentiation. This gene is located at the chemokine receptor gene cluster region. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CCR5 (Chemokine (C-C Motif) Receptor 5 (Gene/Pseudogene)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCR5 include west nile virus and diabetes mellitus, insulin-dependent, 22. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding and coreceptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CCR7.	Receptor for a number of inflammatory CC-chemokines including MIP-1-alpha, MIP-1-beta and RANTES and subsequently transduces a signal by increasing the intracellular calcium ion level. May play a role in the control of granulocytic lineage proliferation or differentiation. Acts as a coreceptor (CD4 being the primary receptor) for HIV-1 R5 isolates.	same
CCR3	The protein encoded by this gene is a receptor for C-C type chemokines. It belongs to family 1 of the G protein-coupled receptors. This receptor binds and responds to a variety of chemokines, including eotaxin (CCL11), eotaxin-3 (CCL26), MCP-3 (CCL7), MCP-4 (CCL13), and RANTES (CCL5). It is highly expressed in eosinophils and basophils, and is also detected in TH1 and TH2 cells, as well as in airway epithelial cells. This receptor may contribute to the accumulation and activation of eosinophils and other inflammatory cells in the allergic airway. It is also known to be an entry co-receptor for HIV-1. This gene and seven other chemokine receptor genes form a chemokine receptor gene cluster on the chromosomal region 3p21. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]	CCR3 (Chemokine (C-C Motif) Receptor 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCR3 include aids dementia complex and erdheim-chester disease. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include chemokine receptor activity and C-C chemokine receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CCR7.	Receptor for a C-C type chemokine. Binds to eotaxin, eotaxin-3, MCP-3, MCP-4, RANTES and MIP-1 delta. Subsequently transduces a signal by increasing the intracellular calcium ions level. Alternative coreceptor with CD4 for HIV-1 infection	same
CCR7	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the G protein-coupled receptor family. This receptor was identified as a gene induced by the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), and is thought to be a mediator of EBV effects on B lymphocytes. This receptor is expressed in various lymphoid tissues and activates B and T lymphocytes. It has been shown to control the migration of memory T cells to inflamed tissues, as well as stimulate dendritic cell maturation. The chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 19 (CCL19/ECL) has been reported to be a specific ligand of this receptor. Signals mediated by this receptor regulate T cell homeostasis in lymph nodes, and may also function in the activation and polarization of T cells, and in chronic inflammation pathogenesis. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	CCR7 (Chemokine (C-C Motif) Receptor 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCR7 include chronic actinic dermatitis and erdheim-chester disease. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include G-protein coupled receptor activity and chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 19 binding. An important paralog of this gene is CCR1.	Receptor for the MIP-3-beta chemokine. Probable mediator of EBV effects on B-lymphocytes or of normal lymphocyte functions	same
CCR8	This gene encodes a member of the beta chemokine receptor family, which is predicted to be a seven transmembrane protein similar to G protein-coupled receptors. Chemokines and their receptors are important for the migration of various cell types into the inflammatory sites. This receptor protein preferentially expresses in the thymus. I-309, thymus activation-regulated cytokine (TARC) and macrophage inflammatory protein-1 beta (MIP-1 beta) have been identified as ligands of this receptor. Studies of this receptor and its ligands suggested its role in regulation of monocyte chemotaxis and thymic cell apoptosis. More specifically, this receptor may contribute to the proper positioning of activated T cells within the antigenic challenge sites and specialized areas of lymphoid tissues. This gene is located at the chemokine receptor gene cluster region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CCR8 (Chemokine (C-C Motif) Receptor 8) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCR8 include kaposi sarcoma and allergic rhinitis. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include coreceptor activity and C-C chemokine receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CCR7.	Receptor for the chemokine CCL1/SCYA1/I-309. May regulate monocyte chemotaxis and thymic cell line apoptosis. Alternative coreceptor with CD4 for HIV-1 infection.	same
CCR9	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the beta chemokine receptor family. It is predicted to be a seven transmembrane protein similar to G protein-coupled receptors. Chemokines and their receptors are key regulators of the thymocytes migration and maturation in normal and inflammation conditions. The specific ligand of this receptor is CCL25. It has been found that this gene is differentially expressed by T lymphocytes of small intestine and colon, suggested a role in the thymocytes recruitment and development that may permit functional specialization of immune responses in different segment of the gastrointestinal tract. This gene is mapped to the chemokine receptor gene cluster region. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]	CCR9 (Chemokine (C-C Motif) Receptor 9) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCR9 include ileitis and celiac disease. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include chemokine receptor activity and C-C chemokine receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CCR7.	Receptor for chemokine SCYA25/TECK. Subsequently transduces a signal by increasing the intracellular calcium ions level. Alternative coreceptor with CD4 for HIV-1 infection	same
CCR6	This gene encodes a member of the beta chemokine receptor family, which is predicted to be a seven transmembrane protein similar to G protein-coupled receptors. The gene is preferentially expressed by immature dendritic cells and memory T cells. The ligand of this receptor is macrophage inflammatory protein 3 alpha (MIP-3 alpha). This receptor has been shown to be important for B-lineage maturation and antigen-driven B-cell differentiation, and it may regulate the migration and recruitment of dentritic and T cells during inflammatory and immunological responses. Alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode the same protein have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CCR6 (Chemokine (C-C Motif) Receptor 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCR6 include erdheim-chester disease and diffuse scleroderma. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor activity and C-C chemokine receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CCR7.	Receptor for a C-C type chemokine. Binds to MIP-3-alpha/LARC and subsequently transduces a signal by increasing the intracellular calcium ions level.	same
CCNK	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transcription cyclin family. These cyclins may regulate transcription through their association with and activation of cyclin-dependent kinases (CDK) that phosphorylate the C-terminal domain (CTD) of the large subunit of RNA polymerase II. This gene product may play a dual role in regulating CDK and RNA polymerase II activities. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CCNK (Cyclin K) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCNK include pthirus pubis infestation and kaposi sarcoma. Among its related pathways are Direct p53 effectors. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and RNA polymerase II carboxy-terminal domain kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CCNT1.	Regulatory subunit of cyclin-dependent kinases that mediates activation of target kinases. Plays a role in transcriptional regulation via its role in regulating the phosphorylation of the C-terminal domain (CTD) of the large subunit of RNA polymerase II (POLR2A).	same
CCRL1	empty	empty	empty	same
CCRL2	This gene encodes a chemokine receptor like protein, which is predicted to be a seven transmembrane protein and most closely related to CCR1. Chemokines and their receptors mediated signal transduction are critical for the recruitment of effector immune cells to the site of inflammation. This gene is expressed at high levels in primary neutrophils and primary monocytes, and is further upregulated on neutrophil activation and during monocyte to macrophage differentiation. The function of this gene is unknown. This gene is mapped to the region where the chemokine receptor gene cluster is located. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CCRL2 (Chemokine (C-C Motif) Receptor-Like 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include chemokine receptor activity and CCR chemokine receptor binding. An important paralog of this gene is CCR7.	Receptor for CCL19 and chemerin/RARRES2. Does not appear to be a signaling receptor, but may have a role in modulating chemokine-triggered immune responses by capturing and internalizing CCL19 or by presenting RARRES2 ligand to CMKLR1, a functional signaling receptors. Plays a critical role for the development of Th2 responses	same
CCR4	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the G-protein-coupled receptor family . It is a receptor for the CC chemokine - MIP-1, RANTES, TARC and MCP-1. Chemokines are a group of small polypeptide, structurally related molecules that regulate cell trafficking of various types of leukocytes. The chemokines also play fundamental roles in the development, homeostasis, and function of the immune system, and they have effects on cells of the central nervous system as well as on endothelial cells involved in angiogenesis or angiostasis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CCR4 (Chemokine (C-C Motif) Receptor 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCR4 include pityriasis lichenoides and alk-negative anaplastic large cell lymphoma. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include chemokine receptor activity and C-C chemokine receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CCR7.	High affinity receptor for the C-C type chemokines CCL17/TARC, CCL22/MDC and CKLF isoform 1/CKLF1. The activity of this receptor is mediated by G(i) proteins which activate a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system. Can function as a chemoattractant homing receptor on circulating memory lymphocytes and as a coreceptor for some primary HIV-2 isolates. In the CNS, could mediate hippocampal-neuron survival.	same
CCT2	The protein encoded by this gene is a molecular chaperone that is a member of the chaperonin containing TCP1 complex (CCT), also known as the TCP1 ring complex (TRiC). This complex consists of two identical stacked rings, each containing eight different proteins. Unfolded polypeptides enter the central cavity of the complex and are folded in an ATP-dependent manner. The complex folds various proteins, including actin and tubulin. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]	CCT2 (Chaperonin Containing TCP1, Subunit 2 (Beta)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Protein folding. GO annotations related to this gene include unfolded protein binding.	Molecular chaperone; assists the folding of proteins upon ATP hydrolysis. As part of the BBS/CCT complex may play a role in the assembly of BBSome, a complex involved in ciliogenesis regulating transports vesicles to the cilia. Known to play a role, in vitro, in the folding of actin and tubulin.	same
CCT4	The chaperonin containing TCP1 (MIM 186980) complex (CCT), also called the TCP1 ring complex, consists of 2 back-to-back rings, each containing 8 unique but homologous subunits, such as CCT4. CCT assists the folding of newly translated polypeptide substrates through multiple rounds of ATP-driven release and rebinding of partially folded intermediate forms. Substrates of CCT include the cytoskeletal proteins actin (see MIM 102560) and tubulin (see MIM 191130), as well as alpha-transducin (MIM 139330) (Won et al., 1998 [PubMed 9819444]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CCT4 (Chaperonin Containing TCP1, Subunit 4 (Delta)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCT4 include sensory peripheral neuropathy and hereditary sensory neuropathy. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Protein folding. GO annotations related to this gene include unfolded protein binding.	Molecular chaperone; assists the folding of proteins upon ATP hydrolysis. As part of the BBS/CCT complex may play a role in the assembly of BBSome, a complex involved in ciliogenesis regulating transports vesicles to the cilia. Known to play a role, in vitro, in the folding of actin and tubulin.	same
CCNY	Cyclins, such as CCNY, control cell division cycles and regulate cyclin-dependent kinases (e.g., CDC2; MIM 116940) (Li et al., 2009 [PubMed 18060517]).[supplied by OMIM, May 2009]	CCNY (Cyclin Y) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase regulator activity. An important paralog of this gene is CCNYL1.	Positive regulatory subunit of the cyclin-dependent kinases CDK14/PFTK1 and CDK16. Acts as a cell-cycle regulator of Wnt signaling pathway during G2/M phase by recruiting CDK14/PFTK1 to the plasma membrane and promoting phosphorylation of LRP6, leading to the activation of the Wnt signaling pathway. Recruits CDK16 to the plasma membrane. Isoform 3 might play a role in the activation of MYC-mediated transcription.	same
CCT5	The protein encoded by this gene is a molecular chaperone that is a member of the chaperonin containing TCP1 complex (CCT), also known as the TCP1 ring complex (TRiC). This complex consists of two identical stacked rings, each containing eight different proteins. Unfolded polypeptides enter the central cavity of the complex and are folded in an ATP-dependent manner. The complex folds various proteins, including actin and tubulin. Alternate transcriptional splice variants of this gene have been observed but have not been thoroughly characterized. In addition, three pseudogenes of this gene have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	CCT5 (Chaperonin Containing TCP1, Subunit 5 (Epsilon)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCT5 include neuropathy, hereditary sensory, with spastic paraplegia and autosomal recessive sensory neuropathy with spastic paraplegia. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Protein folding. GO annotations related to this gene include unfolded protein binding.	Molecular chaperone; assists the folding of proteins upon ATP hydrolysis. As part of the BBS/CCT complex may play a role in the assembly of BBSome, a complex involved in ciliogenesis regulating transports vesicles to the cilia. Known to play a role, in vitro, in the folding of actin and tubulin.	same
CCT6P1	empty	CCT6P1 (Chaperonin Containing TCP1, Subunit 6 (Zeta) Pseudogene 1) is a Pseudogene.	empty	same
CCT6B	This gene encodes a molecular chaperone that is a member of the chaperonin-containing TCP1 complex (CCT), also known as the TCP1 ring complex (TRiC). This complex consists of two identical stacked rings, each containing eight different proteins. Unfolded polypeptides enter the central cavity of the complex and are folded in an ATP-dependent manner. The complex folds various proteins, including actin and tubulin. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2015]	CCT6B (Chaperonin Containing TCP1, Subunit 6B (Zeta 2)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell cycle_Role of APC in cell cycle regulation. GO annotations related to this gene include unfolded protein binding and protein transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is CCT6A.	Molecular chaperone; assists the folding of proteins upon ATP hydrolysis. Known to play a role, in vitro, in the folding of actin and tubulin (By similarity).	same
CCT3	The protein encoded by this gene is a molecular chaperone that is a member of the chaperonin containing TCP1 complex (CCT), also known as the TCP1 ring complex (TRiC). This complex consists of two identical stacked rings, each containing eight different proteins. Unfolded polypeptides enter the central cavity of the complex and are folded in an ATP-dependent manner. The complex folds various proteins, including actin and tubulin. Alternate transcriptional splice variants have been characterized for this gene. In addition, a pseudogene of this gene has been found on chromosome 8. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]	CCT3 (Chaperonin Containing TCP1, Subunit 3 (Gamma)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Protein folding. GO annotations related to this gene include unfolded protein binding.	Molecular chaperone; assists the folding of proteins upon ATP hydrolysis. As part of the BBS/CCT complex may play a role in the assembly of BBSome, a complex involved in ciliogenesis regulating transports vesicles to the cilia. Known to play a role, in vitro, in the folding of actin and tubulin.	same
CCT6A	The protein encoded by this gene is a molecular chaperone that is a member of the chaperonin containing TCP1 complex (CCT), also known as the TCP1 ring complex (TRiC). This complex consists of two identical stacked rings, each containing eight different proteins. Unfolded polypeptides enter the central cavity of the complex and are folded in an ATP-dependent manner. The complex folds various proteins, including actin and tubulin. Alternate transcriptional splice variants of this gene, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. In addition, several pseudogenes of this gene have been located. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	CCT6A (Chaperonin Containing TCP1, Subunit 6A (Zeta 1)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCT6A include morphine dependence. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Protein folding. GO annotations related to this gene include unfolded protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is CCT6B.	Molecular chaperone; assists the folding of proteins upon ATP hydrolysis. Known to play a role, in vitro, in the folding of actin and tubulin	same
CCR1	This gene encodes a member of the beta chemokine receptor family, which is predicted to be a seven transmembrane protein similar to G protein-coupled receptors. The ligands of this receptor include macrophage inflammatory protein 1 alpha (MIP-1 alpha), regulated on activation normal T expressed and secreted protein (RANTES), monocyte chemoattractant protein 3 (MCP-3), and myeloid progenitor inhibitory factor-1 (MPIF-1). Chemokines and their receptors mediated signal transduction are critical for the recruitment of effector immune cells to the site of inflammation. Knockout studies of the mouse homolog suggested the roles of this gene in host protection from inflammatory response, and susceptibility to virus and parasite. This gene and other chemokine receptor genes, including CCR2, CCRL2, CCR3, CCR5 and CCXCR1, are found to form a gene cluster on chromosome 3p. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CCR1 (Chemokine (C-C Motif) Receptor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCR1 include chromoblastomycosis and mesangial proliferative glomerulonephritis. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include phosphatidylinositol phospholipase C activity and C-C chemokine receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CCR7.	Receptor for a C-C type chemokine. Binds to MIP-1-alpha, MIP-1-delta, RANTES, and MCP-3 and, less efficiently, to MIP-1-beta or MCP-1 and subsequently transduces a signal by increasing the intracellular calcium ions level. Responsible for affecting stem cell proliferation	same
CCT8L2	empty	CCT8L2 (Chaperonin Containing TCP1, Subunit 8 (Theta)-Like 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include unfolded protein binding and anion channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CCT8.	Possible molecular chaperone; assists the folding of proteins upon ATP hydrolysis.	same
CCT7	This gene encodes a molecular chaperone that is a member of the chaperonin containing TCP1 complex (CCT), also known as the TCP1 ring complex (TRiC). This complex consists of two identical stacked rings, each containing eight different proteins. Unfolded polypeptides enter the central cavity of the complex and are folded in an ATP-dependent manner. The complex folds various proteins, including actin and tubulin. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 5 and 6. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]	CCT7 (Chaperonin Containing TCP1, Subunit 7 (Eta)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCT7 include babesiosis and myocardial infarction. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Protein folding. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and unfolded protein binding.	Molecular chaperone; assists the folding of proteins upon ATP hydrolysis. Known to play a role, in vitro, in the folding of actin and tubulin (By similarity).	same
CCS	Copper chaperone for superoxide dismutase specifically delivers Cu to copper/zinc superoxide dismutase and may activate copper/zinc superoxide dismutase through direct insertion of the Cu cofactor. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CCS (Copper Chaperone For Superoxide Dismutase) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cellular Senescence and Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). GO annotations related to this gene include copper ion binding and copper ion transmembrane transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is SOD3.	Delivers copper to copper zinc superoxide dismutase (SOD1)	same
CCRN4L	The protein encoded by this gene is highly similar to Nocturnin, a gene identified as a circadian clock regulated gene in Xenopus laevis. This protein and Nocturnin protein share similarity with the C-terminal domain of a yeast transcription factor, carbon catabolite repression 4 (CCR4). The mRNA abundance of a similar gene in mouse has been shown to exhibit circadian rhythmicity, which suggests a role for this protein in clock function or as a circadian clock effector. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CCRN4L (CCR4 Carbon Catabolite Repression 4-Like (S. Cerevisiae)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is PDE12.	Circadian deadenylase which plays an important role in post-transcriptional regulation of metabolic genes under circadian control. Degrades poly(A) tails of specific target mRNAs leading to their degradation and suppression of translation. Exerts a rhythmic post-transcriptional control of genes necessary for metabolic functions including nutrient absorption, glucose/insulin sensitivity, lipid metabolism, adipogenesis, inflammation and osteogenesis. Plays an important role in favoring adipogenesis over osteoblastogenesis and acts as a key regulator of the adipogenesis/osteogenesis balance. Promotes adipogenesis by activating PPARG transcriptional activity in a deadenylase-independent manner by facilitating its nuclear translocation. Regulates circadian expression of NOS2 in the liver and negatively regulates the circadian expression of IGF1 in the bone. Critical for proper development of early embryos (By similarity).	same
CD101	empty	CD101 (CD101 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrolase activity, acting on carbon-nitrogen (but not peptide) bonds, in cyclic amides. An important paralog of this gene is PTGFRN.	Plays a role as inhibitor of T-cells proliferation induced by CD3. Inhibits expression of IL2RA on activated T-cells and secretion of IL2. Inhibits tyrosine kinases that are required for IL2 production and cellular proliferation. Inhibits phospholipase C-gamma-1/PLCG1 phosphorylation and subsequent CD3-induced changes in intracellular free calcium. Prevents nuclear translocation of nuclear factor of activated T-cell to the nucleus. Plays a role in the inhibition of T-cell proliferation via IL10 secretion by cutaneous dendritic cells. May be a marker of CD4(+) CD56(+) leukemic tumor cells.	same
CD109	This gene encodes a glycosyl phosphatidylinositol (GPI)-linked glycoprotein that localizes to the surface of platelets, activated T-cells, and endothelial cells. The protein binds to and negatively regulates signalling by transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta). Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2014]	CD109 (CD109 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD109 include fetal and neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia. GO annotations related to this gene include serine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is C3.	Modulates negatively TGFB1 signaling in keratinocytes.	same
CD151	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, also known as the tetraspanin family. Most of these members are cell-surface proteins that are characterized by the presence of four hydrophobic domains. The proteins mediate signal transduction events that play a role in the regulation of cell development, activation, growth and motility. This encoded protein is a cell surface glycoprotein that is known to complex with integrins and other transmembrane 4 superfamily proteins. It is involved in cellular processes including cell adhesion and may regulate integrin trafficking and/or function. This protein enhances cell motility, invasion and metastasis of cancer cells. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode the same protein have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CD151 (CD151 Molecule (Raph Blood Group)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD151 include nephropathy with pretibial epidermolysis bullosa and deafness and nephrotic syndrome-deafness-pretibial epidermolysis bullosa syndrome. Among its related pathways are Degradation of the extracellular matrix and Cell junction organization. An important paralog of this gene is TSPAN7.	Essential for the proper assembly of the glomerular and tubular basement membranes in kidney.	same
CD160	CD160 is an 27 kDa glycoprotein which was initially identified with the monoclonal antibody BY55. Its expression is tightly associated with peripheral blood NK cells and CD8 T lymphocytes with cytolytic effector activity. The cDNA sequence of CD160 predicts a cysteine-rich, glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored protein of 181 amino acids with a single Ig-like domain weakly homologous to KIR2DL4 molecule. CD160 is expressed at the cell surface as a tightly disulfide-linked multimer. RNA blot analysis revealed CD160 mRNAs of 1.5 and 1.6 kb whose expression was highly restricted to circulating NK and T cells, spleen and small intestine. Within NK cells CD160 is expressed by CD56dimCD16+ cells whereas among circulating T cells its expression is mainly restricted to TCRgd bearing cells and to TCRab+CD8brightCD95+CD56+CD28-CD27-cells. In tissues, CD160 is expressed on all intestinal intraepithelial lymphocytes. CD160 shows a broad specificity for binding to both classical and nonclassical MHC class I molecules. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CD160 (CD160 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD160 include neurotrophic keratopathy and allergic asthma. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Immunoregulatory interactions between a Lymphoid and a non-Lymphoid cell. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and MHC class I receptor activity.	Receptor showing broad specificity for both classical and non-classical MHC class I molecules.	same
CCPG1	empty	CCPG1 (Cell Cycle Progression 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is PBXIP1.	Acts as an assembly platform for Rho protein signaling complexes. Limits guanine nucleotide exchange activity of MCF2L toward RHOA, which results in an inhibition of both its transcriptional activation ability and its transforming activity. Does not inhibit activity of MCF2L toward CDC42, or activity of MCF2 toward either RHOA or CDC42 (By similarity). May be involved in cell cycle regulation.	same
CD163L1	This gene encodes a member of the scavenger receptor cysteine-rich (SRCR) superfamily. Members of this family are secreted or membrane-anchored proteins mainly found in cells associated with the immune system. The SRCR family is defined by a 100-110 amino acid SRCR domain, which may mediate protein-protein interaction and ligand binding. The encoded protein contains twelve SRCR domains, a transmembrane region and a cytoplasmic domain. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]	CD163L1 (CD163 Molecule-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include scavenger receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is LOXL1.	empty	same
CD164L2	empty	CD164L2 (CD164 Sialomucin-Like 2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CD164.	empty	same
CD177	This gene encodes a glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol (GPI)-linked cell surface glycoprotein that plays a role in neutrophil activation. The protein can bind platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1 and function in neutrophil transmigration. Mutations in this gene are associated with myeloproliferative diseases. Over-expression of this gene has been found in patients with polycythemia rubra vera. Autoantibodies against the protein may result in pulmonary transfusion reactions, and it may be involved in Wegener's granulomatosis. A related pseudogene, which is adjacent to this gene on chromosome 19, has been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2014]	CD177 (CD177 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD177 include polycythemia and thrombocytosis. Among its related pathways are Hemostasis and Cell surface interactions at the vascular wall. An important paralog of this gene is TEX101.	empty	same
CD14	The protein encoded by this gene is a surface antigen that is preferentially expressed on monocytes/macrophages. It cooperates with other proteins to mediate the innate immune response to bacterial lipopolysaccharide. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]	CD14 (CD14 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD14 include burning mouth syndrome and acute monocytic leukemia. Among its related pathways are MAPK signaling pathway and Regulation of actin cytoskeleton. GO annotations related to this gene include lipopolysaccharide binding and lipoteichoic acid binding.	In concert with LBP, binds to monomeric lipopolysaccharide and delivers it to the MD-2/TLR4 complex, thereby mediating the innate immune response to bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Acts via MyD88, TIRAP and TRAF6, leading to NF-kappa-B activation, cytokine secretion and the inflammatory response. Up-regulates cell surface molecules, including adhesion molecules.	same
CD1A	This gene encodes a member of the CD1 family of transmembrane glycoproteins, which are structurally related to the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) proteins and form heterodimers with beta-2-microglobulin. The CD1 proteins mediate the presentation of primarily lipid and glycolipid antigens of self or microbial origin to T cells. The human genome contains five CD1 family genes organized in a cluster on chromosome 1. The CD1 family members are thought to differ in their cellular localization and specificity for particular lipid ligands. The protein encoded by this gene localizes to the plasma membrane and to recycling vesicles of the early endocytic system. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed, but their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CD1A (CD1a Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD1A include cheilitis and actinic cheilitis. Among its related pathways are Hematopoietic cell lineage. GO annotations related to this gene include beta-2-microglobulin binding and endogenous lipid antigen binding. An important paralog of this gene is CD1C.	Antigen-presenting protein that binds self and non-self lipid and glycolipid antigens and presents them to T-cell receptors on natural killer T-cells.	same
CD163	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the scavenger receptor cysteine-rich (SRCR) superfamily, and is exclusively expressed in monocytes and macrophages. It functions as an acute phase-regulated receptor involved in the clearance and endocytosis of hemoglobin/haptoglobin complexes by macrophages, and may thereby protect tissues from free hemoglobin-mediated oxidative damage. This protein may also function as an innate immune sensor for bacteria and inducer of local inflammation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	CD163 (CD163 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD163 include adult xanthogranuloma and necrobiosis lipoidica. Among its related pathways are Binding and Uptake of Ligands by Scavenger Receptors and Binding and Uptake of Ligands by Scavenger Receptors. GO annotations related to this gene include scavenger receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is LOXL1.	Acute phase-regulated receptor involved in clearance and endocytosis of hemoglobin/haptoglobin complexes by macrophages and may thereby protect tissues from free hemoglobin-mediated oxidative damage. May play a role in the uptake and recycling of iron, via endocytosis of hemoglobin/haptoglobin and subsequent breakdown of heme. Binds hemoglobin/haptoglobin complexes in a calcium-dependent and pH-dependent manner. Exhibits a higher affinity for complexes of hemoglobin and multimeric haptoglobin of HP*1F phenotype than for complexes of hemoglobin and dimeric haptoglobin of HP*1S phenotype. Induces a cascade of intracellular signals that involves tyrosine kinase-dependent calcium mobilization, inositol triphosphate production and secretion of IL6 and CSF1. Isoform 3 exhibits the higher capacity for ligand endocytosis and the more pronounced surface expression when expressed in cells	same
CD1B	This gene encodes a member of the CD1 family of transmembrane glycoproteins, which are structurally related to the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) proteins and form heterodimers with beta-2-microglobulin. The CD1 proteins mediate the presentation of primarily lipid and glycolipid antigens of self or microbial origin to T cells. The human genome contains five CD1 family genes organized in a cluster on chromosome 1. The CD1 family members are thought to differ in their cellular localization and specificity for particular lipid ligands. The protein encoded by this gene localizes to late endosomes and lysosomes via a tyrosine-based motif in the cytoplasmic tail, and requires vesicular acidification to bind lipid antigens. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CD1B (CD1b Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD1B include mycobacterium malmoense. Among its related pathways are Hematopoietic cell lineage. GO annotations related to this gene include beta-2-microglobulin binding and endogenous lipid antigen binding. An important paralog of this gene is CD1C.	Antigen-presenting protein that binds self and non-self lipid and glycolipid antigens and presents them to T-cell receptors on natural killer T-cells.	same
CD1C	This gene encodes a member of the CD1 family of transmembrane glycoproteins, which are structurally related to the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) proteins and form heterodimers with beta-2-microglobulin. The CD1 proteins mediate the presentation of primarily lipid and glycolipid antigens of self or microbial origin to T cells. The human genome contains five CD1 family genes organized in a cluster on chromosome 1. The CD1 family members are thought to differ in their cellular localization and specificity for particular lipid ligands. The protein encoded by this gene is broadly distributed throughout the endocytic system via a tyrosine-based motif in the cytoplasmic tail. Alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been observed, but their full-length nature is not known. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CD1C (CD1c Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD1C include mycobacterium malmoense. Among its related pathways are Hematopoietic cell lineage. GO annotations related to this gene include beta-2-microglobulin binding and lipopeptide binding. An important paralog of this gene is CD1B.	Antigen-presenting protein that binds self and non-self lipid and glycolipid antigens and presents them to T-cell receptors on natural killer T-cells.	same
CD1D	This gene encodes a divergent member of the CD1 family of transmembrane glycoproteins, which are structurally related to the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) proteins and form heterodimers with beta-2-microglobulin. The CD1 proteins mediate the presentation of primarily lipid and glycolipid antigens of self or microbial origin to T cells. The human genome contains five CD1 family genes organized in a cluster on chromosome 1. The CD1 family members are thought to differ in their cellular localization and specificity for particular lipid ligands. The protein encoded by this gene localizes to late endosomes and lysosomes via a tyrosine-based motif in the cytoplasmic tail. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CD1D (CD1d Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD1D include mycobacterium malmoense and relapsing polychondritis. Among its related pathways are Amoebiasis and TNF Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor activity and cell adhesion molecule binding. An important paralog of this gene is CD1C.	Antigen-presenting protein that binds self and non-self glycolipids and presents them to T-cell receptors on natural killer T-cells.	same
CD164	Sialomucins are a heterogeneous group of secreted or membrane-associated mucins that appear to play 2 key but opposing roles in vivo: first as cytoprotective or antiadhesive agents, and second as adhesion receptors. CD164 is a type I integral transmembrane sialomucin that functions as an adhesion receptor (Watt et al., 1998 [PubMed 9680353]; Forde et al., 2007 [PubMed 17077324]).[supplied by OMIM, Aug 2008]	CD164 (CD164 Molecule, Sialomucin) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Lysosome. An important paralog of this gene is CD164L2.	Sialomucin that may play a key role in hematopoiesis by facilitating the adhesion of CD34(+) cells to the stroma and by negatively regulating CD34(+)CD38(lo/-) cell proliferation. Modulates the migration of umbilical cord blood CD133+ cells and this is mediated through the CXCL12/CXCR4 axis. May play an important role in prostate cancer metastasis and the infiltration of bone marrow by cancer cells. Promotes myogenesis by enhancing CXCR4-dependent cell motility. Positively regulates myoblast migration and promotes myoblast fusion into myotubes (By similarity).	same
CCR2	This gene encodes two isoforms of a receptor for monocyte chemoattractant protein-1, a chemokine which specifically mediates monocyte chemotaxis. Monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 is involved in monocyte infiltration in inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis as well as in the inflammatory response against tumors. The receptors encoded by this gene mediate agonist-dependent calcium mobilization and inhibition of adenylyl cyclase. This gene is located in the chemokine receptor gene cluster region. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants are expressed by the gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]	CCR2 (Chemokine (C-C Motif) Receptor 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CCR2 include anterior uveitis and idiopathic anterior uveitis. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and C-C chemokine receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CCR7.	Receptor for the CCL2, CCL7 and CCL13 chemokines. Transduces a signal by increasing intracellular calcium ion levels. Alternative coreceptor with CD4 for HIV-1 infection.	same
CCT8	This gene encodes the theta subunit of the CCT chaperonin, which is abundant in the eukaryotic cytosol and may be involved in the transport and assembly of newly synthesized proteins. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants of this gene. A pseudogene related to this gene is located on chromosome 1. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2013]	CCT8 (Chaperonin Containing TCP1, Subunit 8 (Theta)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Protein folding. GO annotations related to this gene include unfolded protein binding and ATPase activity, coupled. An important paralog of this gene is CCT8L2.	Molecular chaperone; assists the folding of proteins upon ATP hydrolysis. As part of the BBS/CCT complex may play a role in the assembly of BBSome, a complex involved in ciliogenesis regulating transports vesicles to the cilia. Known to play a role, in vitro, in the folding of actin and tubulin.	same
CD200	The protein encoded by this gene is a type-1 membrane glycoprotein, which contains two immunoglobulin domains, and thus belongs to the immunoglobulin superfamily. Studies of the related genes in mouse and rat suggest that this gene may regulate myeloid cell activity and delivers an inhibitory signal for the macrophage lineage in diverse tissues. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CD200 (CD200 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD200 include chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Immunoregulatory interactions between a Lymphoid and a non-Lymphoid cell.	Costimulates T-cell proliferation. May regulate myeloid cell activity in a variety of tissues	same
CD200R1	This gene encodes a receptor for the OX-2 membrane glycoprotein. Both the receptor and substrate are cell surface glycoproteins containing two immunoglobulin-like domains. This receptor is restricted to the surfaces of myeloid lineage cells and the receptor-substrate interaction may function as a myeloid downregulatory signal. Mouse studies of a related gene suggest that this interaction may control myeloid function in a tissue-specific manner. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CD200R1 (CD200 Receptor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. An important paralog of this gene is CD200R1L.	Inhibitory receptor for the CD200/OX2 cell surface glycoprotein. Limits inflammation by inhibiting the expression of proinflammatory molecules including TNF-alpha, interferons, and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) in response to selected stimuli. Also binds to HHV-8 K14 viral CD200 homolog with identical affinity and kinetics as the host CD200.	same
CD207	The protein encoded by this gene is expressed only in Langerhans cells which are immature dendritic cells of the epidermis and mucosa. It is localized in the Birbeck granules, organelles present in the cytoplasm of Langerhans cells and consisting of superimposed and zippered membranes. It is a C-type lectin with mannose binding specificity, and it has been proposed that mannose binding by this protein leads to internalization of antigen into Birbeck granules and providing access to a nonclassical antigen-processing pathway. Mutations in this gene result in Birbeck granules deficiency or loss of sugar binding activity. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]	CD207 (CD207 Molecule, Langerin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD207 include birbeck granule deficiency and langerhans cell sarcoma. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding and mannose binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLEC4D.	Calcium-dependent lectin displaying mannose-binding specificity. Induces the formation of Birbeck granules (BGs); is a potent regulator of membrane superimposition and zippering. Binds to sulfated as well as mannosylated glycans, keratan sulfate (KS) and beta-glucans. Facilitates uptake of antigens and is involved in the routing and/or processing of antigen for presentation to T cells. Major receptor on primary Langerhans cells for Candida species, Saccharomyces species, and Malassezia furfur. Protects against human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) infection. Binds to high-mannose structures present on the envelope glycoprotein which is followed by subsequent targeting of the virus to the Birbeck granules leading to its rapid degradation.	same
CD226	This gene encodes a glycoprotein expressed on the surface of NK cells, platelets, monocytes and a subset of T cells. It is a member of the Ig-superfamily containing 2 Ig-like domains of the V-set. The protein mediates cellular adhesion of platelets and megakaryocytic cells to vascular endothelial cells. The protein also plays a role in megakaryocytic cell maturation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2015]	CD226 (CD226 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD226 include refractory celiac disease. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Immunoregulatory interactions between a Lymphoid and a non-Lymphoid cell. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and cell adhesion molecule binding.	Receptor involved in intercellular adhesion, lymphocyte signaling, cytotoxicity and lymphokine secretion mediated by cytotoxic T-lymphocyte (CTL) and NK cell.	same
CD209	This gene encodes a transmembrane receptor and is often referred to as DC-SIGN because of its expression on the surface of dendritic cells and macrophages. The encoded protein is involved in the innate immune system and recognizes numerous evolutionarily divergent pathogens ranging from parasites to viruses with a large impact on public health. The protein is organized into three distinct domains: an N-terminal transmembrane domain, a tandem-repeat neck domain and C-type lectin carbohydrate recognition domain. The extracellular region consisting of the C-type lectin and neck domains has a dual function as a pathogen recognition receptor and a cell adhesion receptor by binding carbohydrate ligands on the surface of microbes and endogenous cells. The neck region is important for homo-oligomerization which allows the receptor to bind multivalent ligands with high avidity. Variations in the number of 23 amino acid repeats in the neck domain of this protein are rare but have a significant impact on ligand binding ability. This gene is closely related in terms of both sequence and function to a neighboring gene (GeneID 10332; often referred to as L-SIGN). DC-SIGN and L-SIGN differ in their ligand-binding properties and distribution. Alternative splicing results in multiple variants.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]	CD209 (CD209 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD209 include dengue fever, protection against and dengue disease. Among its related pathways are NOD-like Receptor Signaling Pathways and Tuberculosis. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding and mannose binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLEC4D.	Pathogen-recognition receptor expressed on the surface of immature dendritic cells (DCs) and involved in initiation of primary immune response. Thought to mediate the endocytosis of pathogens which are subsequently degraded in lysosomal compartments. The receptor returns to the cell membrane surface and the pathogen-derived antigens are presented to resting T-cells via MHC class II proteins to initiate the adaptive immune response. Probably recognizes in a calcium-dependent manner high mannose N-linked oligosaccharides in a variety of pathogen antigens, including HIV-1 gp120, HIV-2 gp120, SIV gp120, ebolavirus glycoproteins, cytomegalovirus gB, HCV E2, dengue virus gE, Leishmania pifanoi LPG, Lewis-x antigen in Helicobacter pylori LPS, mannose in Klebsiella pneumonae LPS, di-mannose and tri-mannose in Mycobacterium tuberculosis ManLAM and Lewis-x antigen in Schistosoma mansoni SEA	same
CD247	The protein encoded by this gene is T-cell receptor zeta, which together with T-cell receptor alpha/beta and gamma/delta heterodimers, and with CD3-gamma, -delta and -epsilon, forms the T-cell receptor-CD3 complex. The zeta chain plays an important role in coupling antigen recognition to several intracellular signal-transduction pathways. Low expression of the antigen results in impaired immune response. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CD247 (CD247 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD247 include immunodeficiency 25 and polyarticular onset juvenile idiopathic arthritis. Among its related pathways are Disease and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and transmembrane signaling receptor activity.	Probable role in assembly and expression of the TCR complex as well as signal transduction upon antigen triggering	same
CD248	empty	CD248 (CD248 Molecule, Endosialin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD248 include colorectal cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and extracellular matrix binding. An important paralog of this gene is CD93.	May play a role in tumor angiogenesis.	same
CD24	This gene encodes a sialoglycoprotein that is expressed on mature granulocytes and B cells and modulates growth and differentiation signals to these cells. The precursor protein is cleaved to a short 32 amino acid mature peptide which is anchored via a glycosyl phosphatidylinositol (GPI) link to the cell surface. This gene was missing from previous genome assemblies, but is properly located on chromosome 6. Non-transcribed pseudogenes have been designated on chromosomes 1, 15, 20, and Y. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2014]	CD24 (CD24 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Hematopoietic cell lineage. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and protein tyrosine kinase activator activity.	Modulates B-cell activation responses. Signaling could be triggered by the binding of a lectin-like ligand to the CD24 carbohydrates, and transduced by the release of second messengers derived from the GPI-anchor. Promotes AG-dependent proliferation of B-cells, and prevents their terminal differentiation into antibody-forming cells.	same
CD276	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the immunoglobulin superfamily, and thought to participate in the regulation of T-cell-mediated immune response. Studies show that while the transcript of this gene is ubiquitously expressed in normal tissues and solid tumors, the protein is preferentially expressed only in tumor tissues. Additionally, it was observed that the 3' UTR of this transcript contains a target site for miR29 microRNA, and there is an inverse correlation between the expression of this protein and miR29 levels, suggesting regulation of expression of this gene product by miR29. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]	CD276 (CD276 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell adhesion molecules (CAMs). GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding. An important paralog of this gene is VTCN1.	May participate in the regulation of T-cell-mediated immune response. May play a protective role in tumor cells by inhibiting natural-killer mediated cell lysis as well as a role of marker for detection of neuroblastoma cells. May be involved in the development of acute and chronic transplant rejection and in the regulation of lymphocytic activity at mucosal surfaces. Could also play a key role in providing the placenta and fetus with a suitable immunological environment throughout pregnancy. Both isoform 1 and isoform 2 appear to be redundant in their ability to modulate CD4 T-cell responses. Isoform 2 is shown to enhance the induction of cytotoxic T-cells and selectively stimulates interferon gamma production in the presence of T-cell receptor signaling.	same
CD180	CD180 is a cell surface molecule consisting of extracellular leucine-rich repeats (LRR) and a short cytoplasmic tail. The extracellular LRR is associated with a molecule called MD-1 and form the cell surface receptor complex, RP105/MD-1. It belongs to the family of pathogen receptors, Toll-like receptors (TLR). RP105/MD1, by working in concert with TLR4, controls B cell recognition and signaling of lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a membrane constituent of Gram-negative bacteria. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CD180 (CD180 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD180 include primary biliary cirrhosis. Among its related pathways are IL-2 Pathway. An important paralog of this gene is TLR6.	May cooperate with MD-1 and TLR4 to mediate the innate immune response to bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in B-cells. Leads to NF-kappa-B activation. Also involved in the life/death decision of B-cells (By similarity).	same
CD28	The protein encoded by this gene is essential for T-cell proliferation and survival, cytokine production, and T-helper type-2 development. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2011]	CD28 (CD28 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD28 include sialadenitis and common variable immunodeficiency. Among its related pathways are PI-3K cascade and PI-3K cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and SH3/SH2 adaptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CTLA4.	Involved in T-cell activation, the induction of cell proliferation and cytokine production and promotion of T-cell survival	same
CD2AP	This gene encodes a scaffolding molecule that regulates the actin cytoskeleton. The protein directly interacts with filamentous actin and a variety of cell membrane proteins through multiple actin binding sites, SH3 domains, and a proline-rich region containing binding sites for SH3 domains. The cytoplasmic protein localizes to membrane ruffles, lipid rafts, and the leading edges of cells. It is implicated in dynamic actin remodeling and membrane trafficking that occurs during receptor endocytosis and cytokinesis. Haploinsufficiency of this gene is implicated in susceptibility to glomerular disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CD2AP (CD2-Associated Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD2AP include glomerulosclerosis, focal segmental, 3 and familial idiopathic steroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome with focal segmental hyalinosis. Among its related pathways are Cytoskeletal Signaling and Cell junction organization. GO annotations related to this gene include SH3 domain binding and structural constituent of cytoskeleton. An important paralog of this gene is SH3KBP1.	Seems to act as an adapter protein between membrane proteins and the actin cytoskeleton. In collaboration with CBLC, modulates the rate of RET turnover and may act as regulatory checkpoint that limits the potency of GDNF on neuronal survival. Controls CBLC function, converting it from an inhibitor to a promoter of RET degradation. May play a role in receptor clustering and cytoskeletal polarity in the junction between T-cell and antigen-presenting cell. May anchor the podocyte slit diaphragm to the actin cytoskeleton in renal glomerolus. Also required for cytokinesis.	same
CD2BP2	This gene encodes a bi-functional protein. In the cytoplasm, the encoded protein binds the cytoplasmic tail of human surface antigen CD2 via its C-terminal GYF domain, and regulate CD2-triggered T lymphocyte activation. In the nucleus, this protein is a component of the U5 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein complex and is involved in RNA splicing. A pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 7. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants but their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]	CD2BP2 (CD2 (Cytoplasmic Tail) Binding Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD2BP2 include contagious pustular dermatitis and lobular neoplasia. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and mRNA Splicing - Major Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include ribonucleoprotein complex binding.	Involved in pre-mRNA splicing as component of the U5 snRNP complex that is involved in spliceosome assembly.	same
CD2	CD2 is a surface antigen of the human T-lymphocyte lineage that is expressed on all peripheral blood T cells (summarized by Sewell et al., 1986 [PubMed 3490670]). It is one of the earliest T-cell markers, being present on more than 95% of thymocytes; it is also found on some natural killer cells but not on B lymphocytes. Monoclonal antibodies directed against CD2 inhibit the formation of rosettes with sheep erythrocytes, indicating that CD2 is the erythrocyte receptor or is closely associated with it.[supplied by OMIM, Jul 2010]	CD2 (CD2 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD2 include lepromatous leprosy and familial chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Among its related pathways are TGF-Beta Pathway and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and receptor activity.	CD2 interacts with lymphocyte function-associated antigen (LFA-3) and CD48/BCM1 to mediate adhesion between T-cells and other cell types. CD2 is implicated in the triggering of T-cells, the cytoplasmic domain is implicated in the signaling function	same
CD300A	This gene encodes a member of the CD300 glycoprotein family of cell surface proteins found on leukocytes involved in immune response signaling pathways. This gene is located on chromosome 17 in a cluster with all but one of the other family members. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]	CD300A (CD300a Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CD300LG.	Inhibitory receptor which may contribute to the down-regulation of cytolytic activity in natural killer (NK) cells, and to the down-regulation of mast cell degranulation.	same
CD22	empty	CD22 (CD22 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD22 include eaf and lymphosarcoma. Among its related pathways are B Cell Receptor Signaling Pathway (WikiPathways) and B cell receptor signaling pathway (KEGG). An important paralog of this gene is VCAM1.	Mediates B-cell B-cell interactions. May be involved in the localization of B-cells in lymphoid tissues. Binds sialylated glycoproteins; one of which is CD45. Preferentially binds to alpha-2,6-linked sialic acid. The sialic acid recognition site can be masked by cis interactions with sialic acids on the same cell surface. Upon ligand induced tyrosine phosphorylation in the immune response seems to be involved in regulation of B-cell antigen receptor signaling. Plays a role in positive regulation through interaction with Src family tyrosine kinases and may also act as an inhibitory receptor by recruiting cytoplasmic phosphatases via their SH2 domains that block signal transduction through dephosphorylation of signaling molecules	same
CD1E	This gene encodes a member of the CD1 family of transmembrane glycoproteins, which are structurally related to the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) proteins and form heterodimers with beta-2-microglobulin. The CD1 proteins mediate the presentation of primarily lipid and glycolipid antigens of self or microbial origin to T cells. The human genome contains five CD1 family genes organized in a cluster on chromosome 1. The CD1 family members are thought to differ in their cellular localization and specificity for particular lipid ligands. The protein encoded by this gene localizes within Golgi compartments, endosomes, and lysosomes, and is cleaved into a stable soluble form. The soluble form is required for the intracellular processing of some glycolipids into a form that can be presented by other CD1 family members. Many alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. Additional transcript variants have been found; however, their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	CD1E (CD1e Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD1E include multifocal motor neuropathy and mycobacterium malmoense. Among its related pathways are Hematopoietic cell lineage. GO annotations related to this gene include beta-2-microglobulin binding and endogenous lipid antigen binding. An important paralog of this gene is CD1C.	T-cell surface glycoprotein CD1e, soluble binds diacetylated lipids, including phosphatidyl inositides and diacylated sulfoglycolipids, and is required for the presentation of glycolipid antigens on the cell surface. The membrane-associated form is not active.	same
CD200R1L	empty	CD200R1L (CD200 Receptor 1-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD200R1L include sleeping sickness. An important paralog of this gene is CD200R1.	May be a receptor for the CD200/OX2 cell surface glycoprotein.	same
CD27	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily. This receptor is required for generation and long-term maintenance of T cell immunity. It binds to ligand CD70, and plays a key role in regulating B-cell activation and immunoglobulin synthesis. This receptor transduces signals that lead to the activation of NF-kappaB and MAPK8/JNK. Adaptor proteins TRAF2 and TRAF5 have been shown to mediate the signaling process of this receptor. CD27-binding protein (SIVA), a proapoptotic protein, can bind to this receptor and is thought to play an important role in the apoptosis induced by this receptor. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CD27 (CD27 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD27 include lymphoproliferative syndrome 2 and autosomal recessive lymphoproliferative disease. Among its related pathways are Akt Signaling and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include transmembrane signaling receptor activity and cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity involved in apoptotic process.	Receptor for CD70/CD27L. May play a role in survival of activated T-cells. May play a role in apoptosis through association with SIVA1	same
CD300E	This gene encodes a member of the CD300 glycoprotein family of cell surface proteins expressed on myeloid cells. The protein interacts with the TYRO protein tyrosine kinase-binding protein and is thought to act as an activating receptor. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2012]	CD300E (CD300e Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD300E include lice infestation and tungiasis. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR. An important paralog of this gene is CD300LG.	Probably acts as an activating receptor.	same
CD300LF	This gene encodes a member of the CD300 protein family. Members of this family are cell surface glycoproteins with a single IgV-like extracellular domain, and are involved in the regulation of immune response. The encoded protein is an inhibitory receptor. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2014]	CD300LF (CD300 Molecule-Like Family Member F) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CD300LG.	Acts as an inhibitory receptor for myeloid cells and mast cells. Inhibits osteoclast formation.	same
CD300C	The CMRF35 antigen, which was identified by reactivity with a monoclonal antibody, is present on monocytes, neutrophils, and some T and B lymphocytes (Jackson et al., 1992 [PubMed 1349532]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CD300C (CD300c Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include transmembrane signaling receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CD300LG.	empty	same
CD19	Lymphocytes proliferate and differentiate in response to various concentrations of different antigens. The ability of the B cell to respond in a specific, yet sensitive manner to the various antigens is achieved with the use of low-affinity antigen receptors. This gene encodes a cell surface molecule which assembles with the antigen receptor of B lymphocytes in order to decrease the threshold for antigen receptor-dependent stimulation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CD19 (CD19 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD19 include immunodeficiency, common variable, 3 and cd19-related common variable immune deficiency. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and PI-3K cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor signaling protein activity.	Assembles with the antigen receptor of B-lymphocytes in order to decrease the threshold for antigen receptor-dependent stimulation	same
CD300LB	CD300LB is a nonclassical activating receptor of the immunoglobulin (Ig) superfamily expressed on myeloid cells (Martinez-Barriocanal and Sayos, 2006 [PubMed 16920917]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CD300LB (CD300 Molecule-Like Family Member B) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR. An important paralog of this gene is CD300LG.	Acts as an activating immune receptor through its interaction with ITAM-bearing adapter TYROBP, and also independently by recruitment of GRB2.	same
CD244	This gene encodes a cell surface receptor expressed on natural killer (NK) cells (and some T cells) that mediate non-major histocompatibility complex (MHC) restricted killing. The interaction between NK-cell and target cells via this receptor is thought to modulate NK-cell cytolytic activity. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]	CD244 (CD244 Molecule, Natural Killer Cell Receptor 2B4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD244 include rheumatoid arthritis. Among its related pathways are Hemostasis and Immune response Role of DAP12 receptors in NK cells. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor activity.	Modulate other receptor-ligand interactions to enhance leukocyte activation. CD244/2B4 is the only heterophilic receptor of SLAM family.	same
CD320	This gene encodes the transcobalamin receptor that is expressed at the cell surface. It mediates the cellular uptake of transcobalamin bound cobalamin (vitamin B12), and is involved in B-cell proliferation and immunoglobulin secretion. Mutations in this gene are associated with methylmalonic aciduria. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]	CD320 (CD320 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD320 include methylmalonic aciduria due to transcobalamin receptor defect and methylmalonic aciduria and homocystinuria type cblg. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include growth factor activity and cobalamin binding.	Germinal center-B (GC-B) cells differentiate into memory B-cells and plasma cells (PC) through interaction with T-cells and follicular dendritic cells (FDC). CD320 augments the proliferation of PC precursors generated by IL-10. Receptor for the cellular uptake of transcobalamin bound cobalamin.	same
CD302	CD302 is a C-type lectin receptor involved in cell adhesion and migration, as well as endocytosis and phagocytosis (Kato et al., 2007 [PubMed 17947679]).[supplied by OMIM, Aug 2008]	CD302 (CD302 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding.	Potential multifunctional C-type lectin receptor that may play roles in endocytosis and phagocytosis as well as in cell adhesion and migration.	same
CD300LD	empty	CD300LD (CD300 Molecule-Like Family Member D) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CD300LG.	empty	same
CD274	empty	CD274 (CD274 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD274 include cheilitis and actinic cheilitis. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and CD28 co-stimulation. An important paralog of this gene is PDCD1LG2.	Involved in the costimulatory signal, essential for T-cell proliferation and production of IL10 and IFNG, in an IL2-dependent and a PDCD1-independent manner. Interaction with PDCD1 inhibits T-cell proliferation and cytokine production.	same
CD33	empty	CD33 (CD33 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD33 include cd4+/cd56+ hematodermic neoplasm and myeloid sarcoma. Among its related pathways are Hematopoietic cell lineage. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is SIGLEC5.	Putative adhesion molecule of myelomonocytic-derived cells that mediates sialic-acid dependent binding to cells. Preferentially binds to alpha-2,6-linked sialic acid. The sialic acid recognition site may be masked by cis interactions with sialic acids on the same cell surface. In the immune response, may act as an inhibitory receptor upon ligand induced tyrosine phosphorylation by recruiting cytoplasmic phosphatase(s) via their SH2 domain(s) that block signal transduction through dephosphorylation of signaling molecules. Induces apoptosis in acute myeloid leukemia (in vitro).	same
CD3EAP	empty	CD3EAP (CD3e Molecule, Epsilon Associated Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD3EAP include multiple myeloma and lung cancer. Among its related pathways are Neuroscience and TNF-alpha/NF-kB Signaling Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include DNA-directed RNA polymerase activity.	DNA-dependent RNA polymerase catalyzes the transcription of DNA into RNA using the four ribonucleoside triphosphates as substrates. Component of RNA polymerase I which synthesizes ribosomal RNA precursors. Isoform 1 is involved in UBTF-activated transcription, presumably at a step following PIC formation	same
CD3G	The protein encoded by this gene is the CD3-gamma polypeptide, which together with CD3-epsilon, -delta and -zeta, and the T-cell receptor alpha/beta and gamma/delta heterodimers, forms the T-cell receptor-CD3 complex. This complex plays an important role in coupling antigen recognition to several intracellular signal-transduction pathways. The genes encoding the epsilon, gamma and delta polypeptides are located in the same cluster on chromosome 11. Defects in this gene are associated with T cell immunodeficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CD3G (CD3g Molecule, Gamma (CD3-TCR Complex)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD3G include immunodeficiency 17, cd3 gamma deficient and immunodeficiency due to defect in cd3-gamma. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include protein heterodimerization activity and receptor signaling complex scaffold activity. An important paralog of this gene is CD3D.	The CD3 complex mediates signal transduction	same
CD37	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, also known as the tetraspanin family. Most of these members are cell-surface proteins that are characterized by the presence of four hydrophobic domains. The proteins mediate signal transduction events that play a role in the regulation of cell development, activation, growth and motility. This encoded protein is a cell surface glycoprotein that is known to complex with integrins and other transmembrane 4 superfamily proteins. It may play a role in T-cell-B-cell interactions. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CD37 (CD37 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Hematopoietic cell lineage. An important paralog of this gene is TSPAN9.	empty	same
CD3D	The protein encoded by this gene is part of the T-cell receptor/CD3 complex (TCR/CD3 complex) and is involved in T-cell development and signal transduction. The encoded membrane protein represents the delta subunit of the CD3 complex, and along with four other CD3 subunits, binds either TCR alpha/beta or TCR gamma/delta to form the TCR/CD3 complex on the surface of T-cells. Defects in this gene are a cause of severe combined immunodeficiency autosomal recessive T-cell-negative/B-cell-positive/NK-cell-positive (SCIDBNK). Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. Other variants may also exist, but the full-length natures of their transcripts has yet to be defined. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]	CD3D (CD3d Molecule, Delta (CD3-TCR Complex)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD3D include immunodeficiency 19 and severe combined immune deficiency, autosomal recessive, t cell-negative, b cell-positive, nk cell-positive, cd3d-related. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include protein heterodimerization activity and transmembrane signaling receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CD3G.	The CD3 complex mediates signal transduction	same
CD40LG	The protein encoded by this gene is expressed on the surface of T cells. It regulates B cell function by engaging CD40 on the B cell surface. A defect in this gene results in an inability to undergo immunoglobulin class switch and is associated with hyper-IgM syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CD40LG (CD40 Ligand) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD40LG include immunodeficiency, x-linked, with hyper-igm and x-linked hyper igm syndrome. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and NF-KappaB Family Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include cytokine activity and CD40 receptor binding.	Mediates B-cell proliferation in the absence of co-stimulus as well as IgE production in the presence of IL-4. Involved in immunoglobulin class switching.	same
CD40	This gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily. The encoded protein is a receptor on antigen-presenting cells of the immune system and is essential for mediating a broad variety of immune and inflammatory responses including T cell-dependent immunoglobulin class switching, memory B cell development, and germinal center formation. AT-hook transcription factor AKNA is reported to coordinately regulate the expression of this receptor and its ligand, which may be important for homotypic cell interactions. Adaptor protein TNFR2 interacts with this receptor and serves as a mediator of the signal transduction. The interaction of this receptor and its ligand is found to be necessary for amyloid-beta-induced microglial activation, and thus is thought to be an early event in Alzheimer disease pathogenesis. Mutations affecting this gene are the cause of autosomal recessive hyper-IgM immunodeficiency type 3 (HIGM3). Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene encoding distinct isoforms have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]	CD40 (CD40 Molecule, TNF Receptor Superfamily Member 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD40 include immunodeficiency with hyper-igm, type 3 and cd40 deficiency. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and NF-KappaB Family Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include signal transducer activity and receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is TNFRSF14.	Receptor for TNFSF5/CD40LG. Transduces TRAF6- and MAP3K8-mediated signals that activate ERK in macrophages and B cells, leading to induction of immunoglobulin secretion	same
CD34	The protein encoded by this gene may play a role in the attachment of stem cells to the bone marrow extracellular matrix or to stromal cells. This single-pass membrane protein is highly glycosylated and phosphorylated by protein kinase C. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	CD34 (CD34 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD34 include atypical neurofibroma and middle ear squamous cell carcinoma. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Immunoregulatory interactions between a Lymphoid and a non-Lymphoid cell. GO annotations related to this gene include transcription factor binding and sulfate binding.	Possible adhesion molecule with a role in early hematopoiesis by mediating the attachment of stem cells to the bone marrow extracellular matrix or directly to stromal cells. Could act as a scaffold for the attachment of lineage specific glycans, allowing stem cells to bind to lectins expressed by stromal cells or other marrow components. Presents carbohydrate ligands to selectins	same
CD47	This gene encodes a membrane protein, which is involved in the increase in intracellular calcium concentration that occurs upon cell adhesion to extracellular matrix. The encoded protein is also a receptor for the C-terminal cell binding domain of thrombospondin, and it may play a role in membrane transport and signal transduction. This gene has broad tissue distribution, and is reduced in expression on Rh erythrocytes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]	CD47 (CD47 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD47 include neonatal meningitis. Among its related pathways are Hemostasis and Degradation of the extracellular matrix. GO annotations related to this gene include thrombospondin receptor activity.	Has a role in both cell adhesion by acting as an adhesion receptor for THBS1 on platelets, and in the modulation of integrins. Plays an important role in memory formation and synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus (By similarity). Receptor for SIRPA, binding to which prevents maturation of immature dendritic cells and inhibits cytokine production by mature dendritic cells. Interaction with SIRPG mediates cell-cell adhesion, enhances superantigen-dependent T-cell-mediated proliferation and costimulates T-cell activation. May play a role in membrane transport and/or integrin dependent signal transduction. May prevent premature elimination of red blood cells. May be involved in membrane permeability changes induced following virus infection.	same
CD36	The protein encoded by this gene is the fourth major glycoprotein of the platelet surface and serves as a receptor for thrombospondin in platelets and various cell lines. Since thrombospondins are widely distributed proteins involved in a variety of adhesive processes, this protein may have important functions as a cell adhesion molecule. It binds to collagen, thrombospondin, anionic phospholipids and oxidized LDL. It directly mediates cytoadherence of Plasmodium falciparum parasitized erythrocytes and it binds long chain fatty acids and may function in the transport and/or as a regulator of fatty acid transport. Mutations in this gene cause platelet glycoprotein deficiency. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2014]	CD36 (CD36 Molecule (Thrombospondin Receptor)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD36 include platelet glycoprotein iv deficiency and coronary heart disease 7. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and L1CAM interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include lipid binding and transforming growth factor beta binding. An important paralog of this gene is SCARB1.	Binds to collagen, thrombospondin, anionic phospholipids and oxidized low-density lipoprotein (oxLDL). May function as a cell adhesion molecule. Directly mediates cytoadherence of Plasmodium falciparum parasitized erythrocytes. Binds long chain fatty acids and may function in the transport and/or as a regulator of fatty acid transport. Receptor for thombospondins, THBS1 AND THBS2, mediating their antiangiogenic effects. As a coreceptor for TLR4-TLR6 heterodimer, promotes inflammation in monocytes/macrophages. Upon ligand binding, such as oxLDL or amyloid-beta 42, rapidly induces the formation of a heterodimer of TLR4 and TLR6, which is internalized and triggers inflammatory response, leading to NF-kappa-B-dependent production of CXCL1, CXCL2 and CCL9 cytokines, via MYD88 signaling pathway, and CCL5 cytokine, via TICAM1 signaling pathway, as well as IL1B secretion.	same
CD44	The protein encoded by this gene is a cell-surface glycoprotein involved in cell-cell interactions, cell adhesion and migration. It is a receptor for hyaluronic acid (HA) and can also interact with other ligands, such as osteopontin, collagens, and matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). This protein participates in a wide variety of cellular functions including lymphocyte activation, recirculation and homing, hematopoiesis, and tumor metastasis. Transcripts for this gene undergo complex alternative splicing that results in many functionally distinct isoforms, however, the full length nature of some of these variants has not been determined. Alternative splicing is the basis for the structural and functional diversity of this protein, and may be related to tumor metastasis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CD44 (CD44 Molecule (Indian Blood Group)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD44 include superficial keratitis and gastrointestinal lymphoma. Among its related pathways are Proteoglycans in cancer and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include transmembrane signaling receptor activity and hyaluronic acid binding. An important paralog of this gene is LYVE1.	Receptor for hyaluronic acid (HA). Mediates cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions through its affinity for HA, and possibly also through its affinity for other ligands such as osteopontin, collagens, and matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). Adhesion with HA plays an important role in cell migration, tumor growth and progression. In cancer cells, may play an important role in invadopodia formation. Also involved in lymphocyte activation, recirculation and homing, and in hematopoiesis. Altered expression or dysfunction causes numerous pathogenic phenotypes. Great protein heterogeneity due to numerous alternative splicing and post-translational modification events.	same
CD48	This gene encodes a member of the CD2 subfamily of immunoglobulin-like receptors which includes SLAM (signaling lymphocyte activation molecules) proteins. The encoded protein is found on the surface of lymphocytes and other immune cells, dendritic cells and endothelial cells, and participates in activation and differentiation pathways in these cells. The encoded protein does not have a transmembrane domain, however, but is held at the cell surface by a GPI anchor via a C-terminal domain which maybe cleaved to yield a soluble form of the receptor. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	CD48 (CD48 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Hemostasis and Immune response Role of DAP12 receptors in NK cells. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor activity and antigen binding.	Ligand for CD2. Might facilitate interaction between activated lymphocytes. Probably involved in regulating T-cell activation	same
CD3E	The protein encoded by this gene is the CD3-epsilon polypeptide, which together with CD3-gamma, -delta and -zeta, and the T-cell receptor alpha/beta and gamma/delta heterodimers, forms the T-cell receptor-CD3 complex. This complex plays an important role in coupling antigen recognition to several intracellular signal-transduction pathways. The genes encoding the epsilon, gamma and delta polypeptides are located in the same cluster on chromosome 11. The epsilon polypeptide plays an essential role in T-cell development. Defects in this gene cause immunodeficiency. This gene has also been linked to a susceptibility to type I diabetes in women. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CD3E (CD3e Molecule, Epsilon (CD3-TCR Complex)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD3E include immunodeficiency 18 and severe combined immune deficiency, autosomal recessive, t cell-negative, b cell-positive, nk cell-positive, cd3e-related. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and NF-KappaB Family Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protein heterodimerization activity and SH3 domain binding.	The CD3 complex mediates signal transduction	same
CD52	empty	CD52 (CD52 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD52 include mantle cell lymphoma and aplastic anemia.	May play a role in carrying and orienting carbohydrate, as well as having a more specific role	same
CD4	This gene encodes a membrane glycoprotein of T lymphocytes that interacts with major histocompatibility complex class II antigenes and is also a receptor for the human immunodeficiency virus. This gene is expressed not only in T lymphocytes, but also in B cells, macrophages, and granulocytes. It is also expressed in specific regions of the brain. The protein functions to initiate or augment the early phase of T-cell activation, and may function as an important mediator of indirect neuronal damage in infectious and immune-mediated diseases of the central nervous system. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified in this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]	CD4 (CD4 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD4 include okt4 epitope deficiency and lymphatic system disease. Among its related pathways are TGF-Beta Pathway and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and enzyme binding.	Accessory protein for MHC class-II antigen/T-cell receptor interaction. May regulate T-cell activation. Induces the aggregation of lipid rafts	same
CD300LG	Members of the CD300 (see MIM 606786)-like (CD300L) family, such as CD300LG, are widely expressed on hematopoietic cells. All CD300L proteins are type I cell surface glycoproteins that contain a single immunoglobulin (Ig) V-like domain (Takatsu et al., 2006 [PubMed 16876123]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CD300LG (CD300 Molecule-Like Family Member G) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CD300LD.	Receptor which may mediate L-selectin-dependent lymphocyte rollings. Binds SELL in a calcium dependent manner. Binds lymphocyte (By similarity).	same
CD58	This gene encodes a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily. The encoded protein is a ligand of the T lymphocyte CD2 protein, and functions in adhesion and activation of T lymphocytes. The protein is localized to the plasma membrane. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]	CD58 (CD58 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD58 include hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome and oral lichen planus. Among its related pathways are Hemostasis and Epstein-Barr virus infection.	Ligand of the T-lymphocyte CD2 glycoprotein. This interaction is important in mediating thymocyte interactions with thymic epithelial cells, antigen-independent and -dependent interactions of T-lymphocytes with target cells and antigen-presenting cells and the T-lymphocyte rosetting with erythrocytes. In addition, the LFA-3/CD2 interaction may prime response by both the CD2+ and LFA-3+ cells	same
CD5	empty	CD5 (CD5 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD5 include richter's syndrome and thymic carcinoma. Among its related pathways are B Cell Receptor Signaling Pathway (WikiPathways) and Hematopoietic cell lineage. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor activity and scavenger receptor activity.	May act as a receptor in regulating T-cell proliferation	same
CD5L	empty	CD5L (CD5 Molecule-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD5L include wolman disease. GO annotations related to this gene include scavenger receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is LOXL1.	May play a role in the regulation of the immune system. Seems to play a role as an inhibitor of apoptosis	same
CD38	CD38 is a novel multifunctional ectoenzyme widely expressed in cells and tissues especially in leukocytes. CD38 also functions in cell adhesion,signal transduction and calcium signaling. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CD38 (CD38 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD38 include plasmablastic lymphoma and prolymphocytic leukemia. Among its related pathways are Epstein-Barr virus infection and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include NAD+ nucleosidase activity and phosphorus-oxygen lyase activity. An important paralog of this gene is BST1.	Synthesizes the second messagers cyclic ADP-ribose and nicotinate-adenine dinucleotide phosphate, the former a second messenger for glucose-induced insulin secretion. Also has cADPr hydrolase activity. Also moonlights as a receptor in cells of the immune system	same
CD63	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, also known as the tetraspanin family. Most of these members are cell-surface proteins that are characterized by the presence of four hydrophobic domains. The proteins mediate signal transduction events that play a role in the regulation of cell development, activation, growth and motility. The encoded protein is a cell surface glycoprotein that is known to complex with integrins. It may function as a blood platelet activation marker. Deficiency of this protein is associated with Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome. Also this gene has been associated with tumor progression. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different protein isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]	CD63 (CD63 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD63 include mast cell disease and platelet storage pool deficiency. Among its related pathways are Proteoglycans in cancer and Hemostasis. An important paralog of this gene is TSPAN7.	Functions as cell surface receptor for TIMP1 and plays a role in the activation of cellular signaling cascades. Plays a role in the activation of ITGB1 and integrin signaling, leading to the activation of AKT, FAK/PTK2 and MAP kinases. Promotes cell survival, reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton, cell adhesion, spreading and migration, via its role in the activation of AKT and FAK/PTK2. Plays a role in VEGFA signaling via its role in regulating the internalization of KDR/VEGFR2. Plays a role in intracellular vesicular transport processes, and is required for normal trafficking of the PMEL luminal domain that is essential for the development and maturation of melanocytes. Plays a role in the adhesion of leukocytes onto endothelial cells via its role in the regulation of SELP trafficking. May play a role in mast cell degranulation in response to Ms4a2/FceRI stimulation, but not in mast cell degranulation in response to other stimuli.	same
CD53	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, also known as the tetraspanin family. Most of these members are cell-surface proteins that are characterized by the presence of four hydrophobic domains. The proteins mediate signal transduction events that play a role in the regulation of cell development, activation, growth and motility. This encoded protein is a cell surface glycoprotein that is known to complex with integrins. It contributes to the transduction of CD2-generated signals in T cells and natural killer cells and has been suggested to play a role in growth regulation. Familial deficiency of this gene has been linked to an immunodeficiency associated with recurrent infectious diseases caused by bacteria, fungi and viruses. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CD53 (CD53 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD53 include intestinal tuberculosis. An important paralog of this gene is TSPAN9.	Required for efficient formation of myofibers in regenerating muscle at the level of cell fusion. May be involved in growth regulation in hematopoietic cells (By similarity).	same
CD59	This gene encodes a cell surface glycoprotein that regulates complement-mediated cell lysis, and it is involved in lymphocyte signal transduction. This protein is a potent inhibitor of the complement membrane attack complex, whereby it binds complement C8 and/or C9 during the assembly of this complex, thereby inhibiting the incorporation of multiple copies of C9 into the complex, which is necessary for osmolytic pore formation. This protein also plays a role in signal transduction pathways in the activation of T cells. Mutations in this gene cause CD59 deficiency, a disease resulting in hemolytic anemia and thrombosis, and which causes cerebral infarction. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants, which encode the same protein, have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CD59 (CD59 Molecule, Complement Regulatory Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD59 include hemolytic anemia, cd59-mediated, with or without immune-mediated polyneuropathy and primary cd59 deficiency. Among its related pathways are Complement and coagulation cascades and Arf6 trafficking events. GO annotations related to this gene include complement binding.	Potent inhibitor of the complement membrane attack complex (MAC) action. Acts by binding to the C8 and/or C9 complements of the assembling MAC, thereby preventing incorporation of the multiple copies of C9 required for complete formation of the osmolytic pore. This inhibitor appears to be species-specific. Involved in signal transduction for T-cell activation complexed to a protein tyrosine kinase	same
CD68	This gene encodes a 110-kD transmembrane glycoprotein that is highly expressed by human monocytes and tissue macrophages. It is a member of the lysosomal/endosomal-associated membrane glycoprotein (LAMP) family. The protein primarily localizes to lysosomes and endosomes with a smaller fraction circulating to the cell surface. It is a type I integral membrane protein with a heavily glycosylated extracellular domain and binds to tissue- and organ-specific lectins or selectins. The protein is also a member of the scavenger receptor family. Scavenger receptors typically function to clear cellular debris, promote phagocytosis, and mediate the recruitment and activation of macrophages. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcripts encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CD68 (CD68 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD68 include rhinoscleroma and verruciform xanthoma of skin. Among its related pathways are Lysosome and LDL Oxidation in Atherogenesis. An important paralog of this gene is LAMP3.	Could play a role in phagocytic activities of tissue macrophages, both in intracellular lysosomal metabolism and extracellular cell-cell and cell-pathogen interactions. Binds to tissue- and organ-specific lectins or selectins, allowing homing of macrophage subsets to particular sites. Rapid recirculation of CD68 from endosomes and lysosomes to the plasma membrane may allow macrophages to crawl over selectin-bearing substrates or other cells	same
CD69	This gene encodes a member of the calcium dependent lectin superfamily of type II transmembrane receptors. Expression of the encoded protein is induced upon activation of T lymphocytes, and may play a role in proliferation. Furthermore, the protein may act to transmit signals in natural killer cells and platelets. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	CD69 (CD69 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD69 include mast cell disease and coccidioidomycosis. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding and transmembrane signaling receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLEC2A.	Involved in lymphocyte proliferation and functions as a signal transmitting receptor in lymphocytes, natural killer (NK) cells, and platelets	same
CD6	This gene encodes a protein found on the outer membrane of T-lymphocytes as well as some other immune cells. The encoded protein contains three scavenger receptor cysteine-rich (SRCR) domains and a binding site for an activated leukocyte cell adhesion molecule. The gene product is important for continuation of T cell activation. This gene may be associated with susceptibility to multiple sclerosis (PMID: 19525953, 21849685). Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	CD6 (CD6 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD6 include oropharynx cancer. Among its related pathways are Cell adhesion molecules (CAMs). GO annotations related to this gene include scavenger receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is LOXL1.	Involved in cell adhesion. Binds to CD166	same
CD72	empty	CD72 (CD72 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are L1CAM interactions and L1CAM interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and transmembrane signaling receptor activity.	Plays a role in B-cell proliferation and differentiation	same
CD74	The protein encoded by this gene associates with class II major histocompatibility complex (MHC) and is an important chaperone that regulates antigen presentation for immune response. It also serves as cell surface receptor for the cytokine macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) which, when bound to the encoded protein, initiates survival pathways and cell proliferation. This protein also interacts with amyloid precursor protein (APP) and suppresses the production of amyloid beta (Abeta). Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	CD74 (CD74 Molecule, Major Histocompatibility Complex, Class II Invariant Chain) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD74 include undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and MHC class II antigen presentation. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and cytokine receptor activity.	Plays a critical role in MHC class II antigen processing by stabilizing peptide-free class II alpha/beta heterodimers in a complex soon after their synthesis and directing transport of the complex from the endoplasmic reticulum to the endosomal/lysosomal system where the antigen processing and binding of antigenic peptides to MHC class II takes place. Serves as cell surface receptor for the cytokine MIF	same
CD7	This gene encodes a transmembrane protein which is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily. This protein is found on thymocytes and mature T cells. It plays an essential role in T-cell interactions and also in T-cell/B-cell interaction during early lymphoid development. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CD7 (CD7 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD7 include pityriasis lichenoides et varioliformis acuta and hepatosplenic t-cell lymphoma. Among its related pathways are Hematopoietic cell lineage. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor activity.	Not yet known	same
CD79B	The B lymphocyte antigen receptor is a multimeric complex that includes the antigen-specific component, surface immunoglobulin (Ig). Surface Ig non-covalently associates with two other proteins, Ig-alpha and Ig-beta, which are necessary for expression and function of the B-cell antigen receptor. This gene encodes the Ig-beta protein of the B-cell antigen component. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CD79B (CD79b Molecule, Immunoglobulin-Associated Beta) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD79B include agammaglobulinemia 6 and autosomal agammaglobulinemia. Among its related pathways are Downstream Signaling Events Of B Cell Receptor (BCR) and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. GO annotations related to this gene include transmembrane signaling receptor activity.	Required in cooperation with CD79A for initiation of the signal transduction cascade activated by the B-cell antigen receptor complex (BCR) which leads to internalization of the complex, trafficking to late endosomes and antigen presentation. Enhances phosphorylation of CD79A, possibly by recruiting kinases which phosphorylate CD79A or by recruiting proteins which bind to CD79A and protect it from dephosphorylation.	same
CD80	The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane receptor that is activated by the binding of CD28 or CTLA-4. The activated protein induces T-cell proliferation and cytokine production. This protein can act as a receptor for adenovirus subgroup B and may play a role in lupus neuropathy. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	CD80 (CD80 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD80 include sialadenitis and lymphocytic choriomeningitis. Among its related pathways are PI-3K cascade and PI-3K cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include coreceptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CD86.	Involved in the costimulatory signal essential for T-lymphocyte activation. T-cell proliferation and cytokine production is induced by the binding of CD28, binding to CTLA-4 has opposite effects and inhibits T-cell activation.	same
CD46	The protein encoded by this gene is a type I membrane protein and is a regulatory part of the complement system. The encoded protein has cofactor activity for inactivation of complement components C3b and C4b by serum factor I, which protects the host cell from damage by complement. In addition, the encoded protein can act as a receptor for the Edmonston strain of measles virus, human herpesvirus-6, and type IV pili of pathogenic Neisseria. Finally, the protein encoded by this gene may be involved in the fusion of the spermatozoa with the oocyte during fertilization. Mutations at this locus have been associated with susceptibility to hemolytic uremic syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	CD46 (CD46 Molecule, Complement Regulatory Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD46 include hemolytic uremic syndrome, atypical 2 and cd46-related atypical hemolytic-uremic syndrome. Among its related pathways are Complement and coagulation cascades and Complement and coagulation cascades. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor activity and complement binding. An important paralog of this gene is CSMD3.	Acts as a cofactor for complement factor I, a serine protease which protects autologous cells against complement-mediated injury by cleaving C3b and C4b deposited on host tissue. May be involved in the fusion of the spermatozoa with the oocyte during fertilization. Also acts as a costimulatory factor for T-cells which induces the differentiation of CD4+ into T-regulatory 1 cells. T-regulatory 1 cells suppress immune responses by secreting interleukin-10, and therefore are thought to prevent autoimmunity. A number of viral and bacterial pathogens seem to exploit this property and directly induce an immunosuppressive phenotype in T-cells by binding to CD46.	same
CD84	This gene encodes a membrane glycoprotein that is a member of the signaling lymphocyte activation molecule (SLAM) family. This family forms a subset of the larger CD2 cell-surface receptor Ig superfamily. The encoded protein is a homophilic adhesion molecule that is expressed in numerous immune cells types and is involved in regulating receptor-mediated signaling in those cells. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]	CD84 (CD84 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD84 include dysgammaglobulinemia. Among its related pathways are Hemostasis and Cell surface interactions at the vascular wall. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is SLAMF6.	Plays a role as adhesion receptor functioning by homophilic interactions and by clustering. Recruits SH2 domain-containing proteins SH2D1A/SAP. Increases proliferative responses of activated T-cells and SH2D1A/SAP does not seen be required for this process. Homophilic interactions enhance interferon gamma/IFNG secretion in lymphocytes and induce platelet stimulation via a SH2D1A/SAP-dependent pathway. May serve as a marker for hematopoietic progenitor cells.	same
CD82	This metastasis suppressor gene product is a membrane glycoprotein that is a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily. Expression of this gene has been shown to be downregulated in tumor progression of human cancers and can be activated by p53 through a consensus binding sequence in the promoter. Its expression and that of p53 are strongly correlated, and the loss of expression of these two proteins is associated with poor survival for prostate cancer patients. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CD82 (CD82 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD82 include facial paralysis and prostate cancer. Among its related pathways are Integrated Pancreatic Cancer Pathway and Direct p53 effectors. An important paralog of this gene is TSPAN9.	Associates with CD4 or CD8 and delivers costimulatory signals for the TCR/CD3 pathway	same
CD8A	The CD8 antigen is a cell surface glycoprotein found on most cytotoxic T lymphocytes that mediates efficient cell-cell interactions within the immune system. The CD8 antigen acts as a coreceptor with the T-cell receptor on the T lymphocyte to recognize antigens displayed by an antigen presenting cell in the context of class I MHC molecules. The coreceptor functions as either a homodimer composed of two alpha chains or as a heterodimer composed of one alpha and one beta chain. Both alpha and beta chains share significant homology to immunoglobulin variable light chains. This gene encodes the CD8 alpha chain. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]	CD8A (CD8a Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD8A include cd8 deficiency, familial and susceptibility to respiratory infections associated with cd8alpha chain mutation. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and TCR Signaling (Qiagen). GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and coreceptor activity.	Identifies cytotoxic/suppressor T-cells that interact with MHC class I bearing targets. CD8 is thought to play a role in the process of T-cell mediated killing. CD8 alpha chains binds to class I MHC molecules alpha-3 domains	same
CD8B	The CD8 antigen is a cell surface glycoprotein found on most cytotoxic T lymphocytes that mediates efficient cell-cell interactions within the immune system. The CD8 antigen, acting as a coreceptor, and the T-cell receptor on the T lymphocyte recognize antigens displayed by an antigen presenting cell (APC) in the context of class I MHC molecules. The functional coreceptor is either a homodimer composed of two alpha chains, or a heterodimer composed of one alpha and one beta chain. Both alpha and beta chains share significant homology to immunoglobulin variable light chains. This gene encodes the CD8 beta chain isoforms. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct membrane associated or secreted isoforms have been described. A pseudogene, also located on chromosome 2, has been identified. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	CD8B (CD8b Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Disease and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. GO annotations related to this gene include coreceptor activity and MHC class I protein binding.	Identifies cytotoxic/suppressor T-cells that interact with MHC class I bearing targets. CD8 is thought to play a role in the process of T-cell mediated killing	same
CD96	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the immunoglobulin superfamily. It is a type I membrane protein. The protein may play a role in the adhesive interactions of activated T and NK cells during the late phase of the immune response. It may also function in antigen presentation. Alternative splicing occurs at this locus and two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CD96 (CD96 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD96 include c syndrome. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Immunoregulatory interactions between a Lymphoid and a non-Lymphoid cell.	May be involved in adhesive interactions of activated T and NK cells during the late phase of the immune response. Promotes NK cell-target adhesion by interacting with PVR present on target cells. May function at a time after T and NK cells have penetrated the endothelium using integrins and selectins, when they are actively engaging diseased cells and moving within areas of inflammation	same
CD86	This gene encodes a type I membrane protein that is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily. This protein is expressed by antigen-presenting cells, and it is the ligand for two proteins at the cell surface of T cells, CD28 antigen and cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4. Binding of this protein with CD28 antigen is a costimulatory signal for activation of the T-cell. Binding of this protein with cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 negatively regulates T-cell activation and diminishes the immune response. Alternative splicing results in several transcript variants encoding different isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, May 2011]	CD86 (CD86 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD86 include benign mesothelioma and allergic encephalomyelitis. Among its related pathways are PI-3K cascade and PI-3K cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor activity and coreceptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CD80.	Receptor involved in the costimulatory signal essential for T-lymphocyte proliferation and interleukin-2 production, by binding CD28 or CTLA-4. May play a critical role in the early events of T-cell activation and costimulation of naive T-cells, such as deciding between immunity and anergy that is made by T-cells within 24 hours after activation. Isoform 2 interferes with the formation of CD86 clusters, and thus acts as a negative regulator of T-cell activation	same
CD55	This gene encodes a glycoprotein involved in the regulation of the complement cascade. Binding of the encoded protein to complement proteins accelerates their decay, thereby disrupting the cascade and preventing damage to host cells. Antigens present on this protein constitute the Cromer blood group system (CROM). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. The predominant transcript variant encodes a membrane-bound protein, but alternatively spliced transcripts may produce soluble proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]	CD55 (CD55 Molecule, Decay Accelerating Factor For Complement (Cromer Blood Group)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD55 include acute hemorrhagic conjunctivitis and hemoglobinuria. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency. GO annotations related to this gene include virus receptor activity and enzyme inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CSMD3.	This protein recognizes C4b and C3b fragments that condense with cell-surface hydroxyl or amino groups when nascent C4b and C3b are locally generated during C4 and c3 activation. Interaction of daf with cell-associated C4b and C3b polypeptides interferes with their ability to catalyze the conversion of C2 and factor B to enzymatically active C2a and Bb and thereby prevents the formation of C4b2a and C3bBb, the amplification convertases of the complement cascade.	same
CD97	This gene encodes a member of the EGF-TM7 subfamily of adhesion G protein-coupled receptors, which mediate cell-cell interactions. These proteins are cleaved by self-catalytic proteolysis into a large extracellular subunit and seven-span transmembrane subunit, which associate at the cell surface as a receptor complex. The encoded protein may play a role in cell adhesion as well as leukocyte recruitment, activation and migration, and contains multiple extracellular EGF-like repeats which mediate binding to chondroitin sulfate and the cell surface complement regulatory protein CD55. Expression of this gene may play a role in the progression of several types of cancer. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms with 3 to 5 EGF-like repeats have been observed for this gene. This gene is found in a cluster with other EGF-TM7 genes on the short arm of chromosome 19. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]	ADGRE5 (Adhesion G Protein-Coupled Receptor E5) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. An important paralog of this gene is ADGRG5.	Receptor potentially involved in both adhesion and signaling processes early after leukocyte activation. Plays an essential role in leukocyte migration (By similarity).	diff
CD99L2	This gene encodes a cell-surface protein that is similar to CD99. A similar protein in mouse functions as an adhesion molecule during leukocyte extravasation. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	CD99L2 (CD99 Molecule-Like 2) is a Protein Coding gene.	Plays a role in a late step of leukocyte extravasation helping cells to overcome the endothelial basement membrane. Acts at the same site as, but independently of, PECAM1 (By similarity). Homophilic adhesion molecule, but these interactions may not be required for cell aggregation (By similarity).	same
CD93	The protein encoded by this gene is a cell-surface glycoprotein and type I membrane protein that was originally identified as a myeloid cell-specific marker. The encoded protein was once thought to be a receptor for C1q, but now is thought to instead be involved in intercellular adhesion and in the clearance of apoptotic cells. The intracellular cytoplasmic tail of this protein has been found to interact with moesin, a protein known to play a role in linking transmembrane proteins to the cytoskeleton and in the remodelling of the cytoskeleton. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CD93 (CD93 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD93 include splenic abscess and c1 inhibitor deficiency. Among its related pathways are Complement Pathway and Complement Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and carbohydrate binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLEC14A.	Receptor (or element of a larger receptor complex) for C1q, mannose-binding lectin (MBL2) and pulmonary surfactant protein A (SPA). May mediate the enhancement of phagocytosis in monocytes and macrophages upon interaction with soluble defense collagens. May play a role in intercellular adhesion	same
CD9	This gene encodes a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, also known as the tetraspanin family. Tetraspanins are cell surface glycoproteins with four transmembrane domains that form multimeric complexes with other cell surface proteins. The encoded protein functions in many cellular processes including differentiation, adhesion, and signal transduction, and expression of this gene plays a critical role in the suppression of cancer cell motility and metastasis. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]	CD9 (CD9 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD9 include acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and oral candidiasis. Among its related pathways are Hemostasis and Hemostasis. GO annotations related to this gene include integrin binding. An important paralog of this gene is TSPAN9.	Involved in platelet activation and aggregation. Regulates paranodal junction formation. Involved in cell adhesion, cell motility and tumor metastasis. Required for sperm-egg fusion.	same
CDAN1	This gene encodes a protein that appears to play a role in nuclear envelope integrity, possibly related to microtubule attachments. Mutations in this gene cause congenital dyserythropoietic anemia type I, a disease resulting in morphological and functional abnormalities of erythropoiesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009]	CDAN1 (Codanin 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDAN1 include dyserythropoietic anemia, congenital, type ia and congenital dyserythropoietic anemia.	May acts as a negative regulator of ASF1 in chromatin assembly.	same
CDC14A	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the dual specificity protein tyrosine phosphatase family. It is highly similar to Saccharomyces cerevisiae Cdc14, a protein tyrosine phosphatase involved in the exit of cell mitosis and initiation of DNA replication, suggesting a role in cell cycle control. This protein has been shown to interact with, and dephosphorylate tumor suppressor protein p53, and is thought to regulate the function of p53. Alternative splicing of this gene results in several transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDC14A (Cell Division Cycle 14A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDC14A include cartilage-hair hypoplasia. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include protein tyrosine phosphatase activity and protein tyrosine/serine/threonine phosphatase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDC14B.	Dual-specificity phosphatase. Required for centrosome separation and productive cytokinesis during cell division. Dephosphorylates SIRT2 around early anaphase. May dephosphorylate the APC subunit FZR1/CDH1, thereby promoting APC-FZR1 dependent degradation of mitotic cyclins and subsequent exit from mitosis.	same
CD79A	The B lymphocyte antigen receptor is a multimeric complex that includes the antigen-specific component, surface immunoglobulin (Ig). Surface Ig non-covalently associates with two other proteins, Ig-alpha and Ig-beta, which are necessary for expression and function of the B-cell antigen receptor. This gene encodes the Ig-alpha protein of the B-cell antigen component. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CD79A (CD79a Molecule, Immunoglobulin-Associated Alpha) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD79A include agammaglobulinemia 3 and autosomal agammaglobulinemia. Among its related pathways are Downstream Signaling Events Of B Cell Receptor (BCR) and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. GO annotations related to this gene include transmembrane signaling receptor activity.	Required in cooperation with CD79B for initiation of the signal transduction cascade activated by binding of antigen to the B-cell antigen receptor complex (BCR) which leads to internalization of the complex, trafficking to late endosomes and antigen presentation. Also required for BCR surface expression and for efficient differentiation of pro- and pre-B-cells. Stimulates SYK autophosphorylation and activation. Binds to BLNK, bringing BLNK into proximity with SYK and allowing SYK to phosphorylate BLNK. Also interacts with and increases activity of some Src-family tyrosine kinases. Represses BCR signaling during development of immature B-cells.	same
CD99	The protein encoded by this gene is a cell surface glycoprotein involved in leukocyte migration, T-cell adhesion, ganglioside GM1 and transmembrane protein transport, and T-cell death by a caspase-independent pathway. In addition, the encoded protein may have the ability to rearrange the actin cytoskeleton and may also act as an oncosuppressor in osteosarcoma. Cyclophilin A binds to CD99 and may act as a signaling regulator of CD99. This gene is found in the pseudoautosomal region of chromosomes X and Y and escapes X-chromosome inactivation. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2013]	CD99 (CD99 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD99 include juvenile type testicular granulosa cell tumor and testicular fibroma. Among its related pathways are Integrin Pathway and Leukocyte transendothelial migration.	Involved in T-cell adhesion processes and in spontaneous rosette formation with erythrocytes. Plays a role in a late step of leukocyte extravasation helping leukocytes to overcome the endothelial basement membrane. Acts at the same site as, but independently of, PECAM1. Involved in T-cell adhesion processes (By similarity).	same
CDC14B	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the dual specificity protein tyrosine phosphatase family. This protein is highly similar to Saccharomyces cerevisiae Cdc14, a protein tyrosine phosphatase involved in the exit of cell mitosis and initiation of DNA replication, which suggests the role in cell cycle control. This protein has been shown to interact with and dephosphorylates tumor suppressor protein p53, and is thought to regulate the function of p53. Alternative splice of this gene results in 3 transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDC14B (Cell Division Cycle 14B) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell cycle and Cell cycle. GO annotations related to this gene include protein tyrosine phosphatase activity and protein tyrosine/serine/threonine phosphatase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDC14A.	Dual-specificity phosphatase involved in DNA damage response. Essential regulator of the G2 DNA damage checkpoint: following DNA damage, translocates to the nucleus and dephosphorylates FZR1/CDH1, a key activator of the anaphase promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C). Dephosphorylates SIRT2 around early anaphase. Dephosphorylation of FZR1/CDH1 activates the APC/C, leading to the ubiquitination of PLK1, preventing entry into mitosis. Preferentially dephosphorylates proteins modified by proline-directed kinases.	same
CD81	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, also known as the tetraspanin family. Most of these members are cell-surface proteins that are characterized by the presence of four hydrophobic domains. The proteins mediate signal transduction events that play a role in the regulation of cell development, activation, growth and motility. This encoded protein is a cell surface glycoprotein that is known to complex with integrins. This protein appears to promote muscle cell fusion and support myotube maintenance. Also it may be involved in signal transduction. This gene is localized in the tumor-suppressor gene region and thus it is a candidate gene for malignancies. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]	CD81 (CD81 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD81 include immunodeficiency, common variable, 6 and common variable immunodeficiency. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and B Cell Receptor Signaling Pathway (WikiPathways). GO annotations related to this gene include MHC class II protein complex binding. An important paralog of this gene is TSPAN9.	May play an important role in the regulation of lymphoma cell growth. Interacts with a 16-kDa Leu-13 protein to form a complex possibly involved in signal transduction. May act as the viral receptor for HCV	same
CDC20B	empty	CDC20B (Cell Division Cycle 20B) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are miRNA Regulation of DNA Damage Response. An important paralog of this gene is FZR1.	empty	same
CDC20	CDC20 appears to act as a regulatory protein interacting with several other proteins at multiple points in the cell cycle. It is required for two microtubule-dependent processes, nuclear movement prior to anaphase and chromosome separation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDC20 (Cell Division Cycle 20) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include enzyme binding and protein C-terminus binding. An important paralog of this gene is FZR1.	Required for full ubiquitin ligase activity of the anaphase promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C) and may confer substrate specificity upon the complex. Is regulated by MAD2L1: in metaphase the MAD2L1-CDC20-APC/C ternary complex is inactive and in anaphase the CDC20-APC/C binary complex is active in degrading substrates. The CDC20-APC/C complex positively regulates the formation of synaptic vesicle clustering at active zone to the presynaptic membrane in postmitotic neurons. CDC20-APC/C-induced degradation of NEUROD2 induces presynaptic differentiation.	same
CDC123	empty	CDC123 (Cell Division Cycle 123) is a Protein Coding gene.	Required for S phase entry of the cell cycle.	same
CDC23	The protein encoded by this gene shares strong similarity with Saccharomyces cerevisiae Cdc23, a protein essential for cell cycle progression through the G2/M transition. This protein is a component of anaphase-promoting complex (APC), which is composed of eight protein subunits and highly conserved in eukaryotic cells. APC catalyzes the formation of cyclin B-ubiquitin conjugate that is responsible for the ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis of B-type cyclins. This protein and 3 other members of the APC complex contain the TPR (tetratricopeptide repeat), a protein domain important for protein-protein interaction. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDC23 (Cell Division Cycle 23) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and PAK Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin-protein transferase activity.	Component of the anaphase promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C), a cell cycle-regulated E3 ubiquitin ligase that controls progression through mitosis and the G1 phase of the cell cycle. The APC/C complex acts by mediating ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of target proteins: it mainly mediates the formation of Lys-11-linked polyubiquitin chains and, to a lower extent, the formation of Lys-48- and Lys-63-linked polyubiquitin chains.	same
CDADC1	empty	CDADC1 (Cytidine And DCMP Deaminase Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrolase activity.	May play an important role in testicular development and spermatogenesis.	same
CDC25A	CDC25A is a member of the CDC25 family of phosphatases. CDC25A is required for progression from G1 to the S phase of the cell cycle. It activates the cyclin-dependent kinase CDC2 by removing two phosphate groups. CDC25A is specifically degraded in response to DNA damage, which prevents cells with chromosomal abnormalities from progressing through cell division. CDC25A is an oncogene, although its exact role in oncogenesis has not been demonstrated. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDC25A (Cell Division Cycle 25A) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and protein tyrosine phosphatase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDC25C.	Tyrosine protein phosphatase which functions as a dosage-dependent inducer of mitotic progression. Directly dephosphorylates CDK1 and stimulates its kinase activity. Also dephosphorylates CDK2 in complex with cyclin E, in vitro	same
CDC25B	CDC25B is a member of the CDC25 family of phosphatases. CDC25B activates the cyclin dependent kinase CDC2 by removing two phosphate groups and it is required for entry into mitosis. CDC25B shuttles between the nucleus and the cytoplasm due to nuclear localization and nuclear export signals. The protein is nuclear in the M and G1 phases of the cell cycle and moves to the cytoplasm during S and G2. CDC25B has oncogenic properties, although its role in tumor formation has not been determined. Multiple transcript variants for this gene exist. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDC25B (Cell Division Cycle 25B) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are MAPK signaling pathway and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and protein tyrosine phosphatase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDC25C.	Tyrosine protein phosphatase which functions as a dosage-dependent inducer of mitotic progression. Required for G2/M phases of the cell cycle progression and abscission during cytokinesis in a ECT2-dependent manner. Directly dephosphorylates CDK1 and stimulates its kinase activity. The three isoforms seem to have a different level of activity.	same
CDC25C	This gene is highly conserved during evolution and it plays a key role in the regulation of cell division. The encoded protein is a tyrosine phosphatase and belongs to the Cdc25 phosphatase family. It directs dephosphorylation of cyclin B-bound CDC2 and triggers entry into mitosis. It is also thought to suppress p53-induced growth arrest. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been described, however, the full-length nature of many of them is not known. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDC25C (Cell Division Cycle 25C) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDC25C include plague and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency. Among its related pathways are Akt Signaling and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and WW domain binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDC25A.	Functions as a dosage-dependent inducer in mitotic control. Tyrosine protein phosphatase required for progression of the cell cycle. When phosphorylated, highly effective in activating G2 cells into prophase. Directly dephosphorylates CDK1 and activates its kinase activity.	same
CDC26	The protein encoded by this gene is highly similar to Saccharomyces cerevisiae Cdc26, a component of cell cycle anaphase-promoting complex (APC). APC is composed of a group of highly conserved proteins and functions as a cell cycle-regulated ubiquitin-protein ligase. APC thus is responsible for the cell cycle regulated proteolysis of various proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDC26 (Cell Division Cycle 26) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDC26 include brain cancer. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Cell Cycle, Mitotic.	Component of the anaphase promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C), a cell cycle-regulated E3 ubiquitin ligase that controls progression through mitosis and the G1 phase of the cell cycle. The APC/C complex acts by mediating ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of target proteins: it mainly mediates the formation of Lys-11-linked polyubiquitin chains and, to a lower extent, the formation of Lys-48- and Lys-63-linked polyubiquitin chains. May recruit the E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes to the complex.	same
CDC14C	empty	CDC14C (Cell Division Cycle 14C) is a Pseudogene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein tyrosine phosphatase activity and protein tyrosine/serine/threonine phosphatase activity.	Dual-specificity phosphatase. Preferentially dephosphorylates proteins modified by proline-directed kinases (By similarity).	same
CDC34	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme family. Ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme catalyzes the covalent attachment of ubiquitin to other proteins. This protein is a part of the large multiprotein complex, which is required for ubiquitin-mediated degradation of cell cycle G1 regulators, and for the initiation of DNA replication. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDC34 (Cell Division Cycle 34) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin-protein transferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is UBE2R2.	Accepts ubiquitin from the E1 complex and catalyzes its covalent attachment to other proteins. In vitro catalyzes Lys-48-linked polyubiquitination. Cooperates with the E2 UBCH5C and the SCF(FBXW11) E3 ligase complex for the polyubiquitination of NFKBIA leading to its subsequent proteasomal degradation. Performs ubiquitin chain elongation building ubiquitin chains from the UBE2D3-primed NFKBIA-linked ubiquitin. UBE2D3 acts as an initiator E2, priming the phosphorylated NFKBIA target at positions Lys-21 and/or Lys-22 with a monoubiquitin. Cooperates with the SCF(SKP2) E3 ligase complex to regulate cell proliferation through ubiquitination and degradation of MYBL2 and KIP1. Involved in ubiquitin conjugation and degradation of CREM isoform ICERIIgamma and ATF15 resulting in abrogation of ICERIIgamma- and ATF5-mediated repression of cAMP-induced transcription during both meiotic and mitotic cell cycles. Involved in the regulation of the cell cycle G2/M phase through its targeting of the WEE1 kinase for ubiquitination and degradation. Also involved in the degradation of beta-catenin. Is target of human herpes virus 1 protein ICP0, leading to ICP0-dependent dynamic interaction with proteasomes.	same
CDC27	The protein encoded by this gene shares strong similarity with Saccharomyces cerevisiae protein Cdc27, and the gene product of Schizosaccharomyces pombe nuc 2. This protein is a component of the anaphase-promoting complex (APC), which is composed of eight protein subunits and is highly conserved in eukaryotic cells. This complex catalyzes the formation of cyclin B-ubiquitin conjugate, which is responsible for the ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis of B-type cyclins. The protein encoded by this gene and three other members of the APC complex contain tetratricopeptide (TPR) repeats, which are important for protein-protein interactions. This protein was shown to interact with mitotic checkpoint proteins including Mad2, p55CDC and BUBR1, and it may thus be involved in controlling the timing of mitosis. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 2, 22 and Y. [provided by RefSeq, May 2014]	CDC27 (Cell Division Cycle 27) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and PAK Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protein phosphatase binding.	Component of the anaphase promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C), a cell cycle-regulated E3 ubiquitin ligase that controls progression through mitosis and the G1 phase of the cell cycle. The APC/C complex acts by mediating ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of target proteins: it mainly mediates the formation of Lys-11-linked polyubiquitin chains and, to a lower extent, the formation of Lys-48- and Lys-63-linked polyubiquitin chains.	same
CDC37L1	CDC37L1 is a cytoplasmic phosphoprotein that exists in complex with HSP90 (HSPCA; MIM 140571) as well as several other proteins involved in HSP90-mediated protein folding (Scholz et al., 2001 [PubMed 11413142]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CDC37L1 (Cell Division Cycle 37-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CDC37.	Co-chaperone that binds to numerous proteins and promotes their interaction with Hsp70 and Hsp90.	same
CDC37	The protein encoded by this gene is highly similar to Cdc 37, a cell division cycle control protein of Sacchromyces cerevisiae. This protein is a molecular chaperone with specific function in cell signal transduction. It has been shown to form complex with Hsp90 and a variety of protein kinases including CDK4, CDK6, SRC, RAF-1, MOK, as well as eIF2 alpha kinases. It is thought to play a critical role in directing Hsp90 to its target kinases. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDC37 (Cell Division Cycle 37) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include unfolded protein binding and heat shock protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDC37L1.	Co-chaperone that binds to numerous kinases and promotes their interaction with the Hsp90 complex, resulting in stabilization and promotion of their activity.	same
CDA	This gene encodes an enzyme involved in pyrimidine salvaging. The encoded protein forms a homotetramer that catalyzes the irreversible hydrolytic deamination of cytidine and deoxycytidine to uridine and deoxyuridine, respectively. It is one of several deaminases responsible for maintaining the cellular pyrimidine pool. Mutations in this gene are associated with decreased sensitivity to the cytosine nucleoside analogue cytosine arabinoside used in the treatment of certain childhood leukemias. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDA (Cytidine Deaminase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDA include xeroderma pigmentosum, group d. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and nucleoside binding.	This enzyme scavenges exogenous and endogenous cytidine and 2-deoxycytidine for UMP synthesis	same
CDC42BPA	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Serine/Threonine protein kinase family. This kinase contains multiple functional domains. Its kinase domain is highly similar to that of the myotonic dystrophy protein kinase (DMPK). This kinase also contains a Rac interactive binding (CRIB) domain, and has been shown to bind CDC42. It may function as a CDC42 downstream effector mediating CDC42 induced peripheral actin formation, and promoting cytoskeletal reorganization. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described, and the full-length nature of two of them has been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDC42BPA (CDC42 Binding Protein Kinase Alpha (DMPK-Like)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDC42BPA include myotonic dystrophy. Among its related pathways are Actin Nucleation by ARP-WASP Complex and CDC42 signaling events. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is STK38L.	Serine/threonine-protein kinase which is an important downstream effector of CDC42 and plays a role in the regulation of cytoskeleton reorganization and cell migration. Regulates actin cytoskeletal reorganization via phosphorylation of PPP1R12C and MYL9/MLC2. In concert with MYO18A and LURAP1, is involved in modulating lamellar actomyosin retrograde flow that is crucial to cell protrusion and migration. Phosphorylates: PPP1R12A, LIMK1 and LIMK2. May play a role in TFRC-mediated iron uptake.	same
CDC42EP1	CDC42 is a member of the Rho GTPase family that regulates multiple cellular activities, including actin polymerization. The protein encoded by this gene is a CDC42 binding protein that mediates actin cytoskeleton reorganization at the plasma membrane. This protein is secreted and is primarily found in bone marrow. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDC42EP1 (CDC42 Effector Protein (Rho GTPase Binding) 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and Actin Nucleation by ARP-WASP Complex. An important paralog of this gene is CDC42EP5.	Probably involved in the organization of the actin cytoskeleton. Induced membrane extensions in fibroblasts.	same
CDC42EP3	This gene encodes a member of a small family of guanosine triphosphate (GTP) metabolizing proteins that contain a CRIB (Cdc42, Rac interactive binding) domain. Members of this family of proteins act as effectors of CDC42 function. The encoded protein is involved in actin cytoskeleton re-organization during cell shape changes, including pseudopodia formation. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome 19. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]	CDC42EP3 (CDC42 Effector Protein (Rho GTPase Binding) 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and Actin Nucleation by ARP-WASP Complex. GO annotations related to this gene include cytoskeletal regulatory protein binding.	Probably involved in the organization of the actin cytoskeleton. May act downstream of CDC42 to induce actin filament assembly leading to cell shape changes. Induces pseudopodia formation in fibroblasts.	same
CDC42EP2	CDC42, a small Rho GTPase, regulates the formation of F-actin-containing structures through its interaction with the downstream effector proteins. The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Borg family of CDC42 effector proteins. Borg family proteins contain a CRIB (Cdc42/Rac interactive-binding) domain. They bind to, and negatively regulate the function of CDC42. Coexpression of this protein with CDC42 suggested a role of this protein in actin filament assembly and cell shape control. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	CDC42EP2 (CDC42 Effector Protein (Rho GTPase Binding) 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and Actin Nucleation by ARP-WASP Complex. GO annotations related to this gene include opioid peptide activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDC42EP3.	Probably involved in the organization of the actin cytoskeleton. May act downstream of CDC42 to induce actin filament assembly leading to cell shape changes. Induces pseudopodia formation in fibroblasts in a CDC42-dependent manner.	same
CDC42BPG	empty	CDC42BPG (CDC42 Binding Protein Kinase Gamma (DMPK-Like)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDC42BPG include myotonic dystrophy. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and magnesium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is STK38L.	May act as a downstream effector of CDC42 in cytoskeletal reorganization. Contributes to the actomyosin contractility required for cell invasion, through the regulation of MYPT1 and thus MLC2 phosphorylation (By similarity).	same
CDC16	This gene encodes a component protein of the APC complex, which is composed of eight proteins and functions as a protein ubiquitin ligase. The APC complex is a cyclin degradation system that governs exit from mitosis. Each component protein of the APC complex is highly conserved among eukaryotic organisms. This protein and two other APC complex proteins, CDC23 and CDC27, contain a tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR), a protein domain that may be involved in protein-protein interaction. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDC16 (Cell Division Cycle 16) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and PAK Pathway.	Component of the anaphase promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C), a cell cycle-regulated E3 ubiquitin ligase that controls progression through mitosis and the G1 phase of the cell cycle. The APC/C complex acts by mediating ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of target proteins: it mainly mediates the formation of Lys-11-linked polyubiquitin chains and, to a lower extent, the formation of Lys-48- and Lys-63-linked polyubiquitin chains.	same
CDC42EP4	The product of this gene is a member of the CDC42-binding protein family. Members of this family interact with Rho family GTPases and regulate the organization of the actin cytoskeleton. This protein has been shown to bind both CDC42 and TC10 GTPases in a GTP-dependent manner. When overexpressed in fibroblasts, this protein was able to induce pseudopodia formation, which suggested a role in inducing actin filament assembly and cell shape control. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDC42EP4 (CDC42 Effector Protein (Rho GTPase Binding) 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and Actin Nucleation by ARP-WASP Complex. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP-Rho binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDC42EP1.	Probably involved in the organization of the actin cytoskeleton. May act downstream of CDC42 to induce actin filament assembly leading to cell shape changes. Induces pseudopodia formation, when overexpressed in fibroblasts	same
CD83	The protein encoded by this gene is a single-pass type I membrane protein and member of the immunoglobulin superfamily of receptors. The encoded protein may be involved in the regulation of antigen presentation. A soluble form of this protein can bind to dendritic cells and inhibit their maturation. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]	CD83 (CD83 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are B cell receptor signaling pathway (KEGG).	May play a significant role in antigen presentation or the cellular interactions that follow lymphocyte activation	same
CDC42BPB	This gene encodes a member of the serine/threonine protein kinase family. The encoded protein contains a Cdc42/Rac-binding p21 binding domain resembling that of PAK kinase. The kinase domain of this protein is most closely related to that of myotonic dystrophy kinase-related ROK. Studies of the similar gene in rat suggested that this kinase may act as a downstream effector of Cdc42 in cytoskeletal reorganization. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDC42BPB (CDC42 Binding Protein Kinase Beta (DMPK-Like)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDC42BPB include myotonic dystrophy. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and magnesium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is STK38L.	Serine/threonine-protein kinase which is an important downstream effector of CDC42 and plays a role in the regulation of cytoskeleton reorganization and cell migration. Regulates actin cytoskeletal reorganization via phosphorylation of PPP1R12C and MYL9/MLC2. In concert with MYO18A and LURAP1, is involved in modulating lamellar actomyosin retrograde flow that is crucial to cell protrusion and migration. Phosphorylates PPP1R12A.	same
CDC42EP5	Cell division control protein 42 (CDC42), a small Rho GTPase, regulates the formation of F-actin-containing structures through its interaction with the downstream effector proteins. The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Borg (binder of Rho GTPases) family of CDC42 effector proteins. Borg family proteins contain a CRIB (Cdc42/Rac interactive-binding) domain. They bind to CDC42 and regulate its function negatively. The encoded protein may inhibit c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) independently of CDC42 binding. The protein may also play a role in septin organization and inducing pseudopodia formation in fibroblasts [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]	CDC42EP5 (CDC42 Effector Protein (Rho GTPase Binding) 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDC42EP5 include quadriplegia. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and Actin Nucleation by ARP-WASP Complex. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP-Rho binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDC42EP1.	Probably involved in the organization of the actin cytoskeleton. May act downstream of CDC42 to induce actin filament assembly leading to cell shape changes. Induces pseudopodia formation in fibroblasts. Inhibits MAPK8 independently of CDC42 binding. Controls septin organization and this effect is negatively regulated by CDC42 (By similarity).	same
CDC45	The protein encoded by this gene was identified by its strong similarity with Saccharomyces cerevisiae Cdc45, an essential protein required to the initiation of DNA replication. Cdc45 is a member of the highly conserved multiprotein complex including Cdc6/Cdc18, the minichromosome maintenance proteins (MCMs) and DNA polymerase, which is important for early steps of DNA replication in eukaryotes. This protein has been shown to interact with MCM7 and DNA polymerase alpha. Studies of the similar gene in Xenopus suggested that this protein play a pivotal role in the loading of DNA polymerase alpha onto chromatin. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]	CDC45 (Cell Division Cycle 45) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDC45 include rothmund-thomson syndrome. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic.	Required for initiation of chromosomal DNA replication	same
CDC6	The protein encoded by this gene is highly similar to Saccharomyces cerevisiae Cdc6, a protein essential for the initiation of DNA replication. This protein functions as a regulator at the early steps of DNA replication. It localizes in cell nucleus during cell cyle G1, but translocates to the cytoplasm at the start of S phase. The subcellular translocation of this protein during cell cyle is regulated through its phosphorylation by Cdks. Transcription of this protein was reported to be regulated in response to mitogenic signals through transcriptional control mechanism involving E2F proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDC6 (Cell Division Cycle 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDC6 include meier-gorlin syndrome 5 and meier-gorlin syndrome 1. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include chromatin binding and kinase binding. An important paralog of this gene is ORC1.	Involved in the initiation of DNA replication. Also participates in checkpoint controls that ensure DNA replication is completed before mitosis is initiated	same
CDC42	The protein encoded by this gene is a small GTPase of the Rho-subfamily, which regulates signaling pathways that control diverse cellular functions including cell morphology, migration, endocytosis and cell cycle progression. This protein is highly similar to Saccharomyces cerevisiae Cdc 42, and is able to complement the yeast cdc42-1 mutant. The product of oncogene Dbl was reported to specifically catalyze the dissociation of GDP from this protein. This protein could regulate actin polymerization through its direct binding to Neural Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (N-WASP), which subsequently activates Arp2/3 complex. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. Pseudogenes of this gene have been identified on chromosomes 3, 4, 5, 7, 8 and 20. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2013]	CDC42 (Cell Division Cycle 42) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDC42 include noma and wiskott-aldrich syndrome. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and protein kinase binding. An important paralog of this gene is RAC2.	Plasma membrane-associated small GTPase which cycles between an active GTP-bound and an inactive GDP-bound state. In active state binds to a variety of effector proteins to regulate cellular responses. Involved in epithelial cell polarization processes. Regulates the bipolar attachment of spindle microtubules to kinetochores before chromosome congression in metaphase. Plays a role in the extension and maintenance of the formation of thin, actin-rich surface projections called filopodia. Mediates CDC42-dependent cell migration.	same
CDC5L	The protein encoded by this gene shares a significant similarity with Schizosaccharomyces pombe cdc5 gene product, which is a cell cycle regulator important for G2/M transition. This protein has been demonstrated to act as a positive regulator of cell cycle G2/M progression. It was also found to be an essential component of a non-snRNA spliceosome, which contains at least five additional protein factors and is required for the second catalytic step of pre-mRNA splicing. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDC5L (Cell Division Cycle 5-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDC5L include cystoisosporiasis and poikiloderma with neutropenia. Among its related pathways are Spliceosome. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and WD40-repeat domain binding.	DNA-binding protein involved in cell cycle control. May act as a transcription activator. Component of the PRP19-CDC5L complex that forms an integral part of the spliceosome and is required for activating pre-mRNA splicing. The PRP19-CDC5L complex may also play a role in the response to DNA damage (DDR).	same
CDC7	This gene encodes a cell division cycle protein with kinase activity that is critical for the G1/S transition. The yeast homolog is also essential for initiation of DNA replication as cell division occurs. Overexpression of this gene product may be associated with neoplastic transformation for some tumors. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode the same protein have been detected. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]	CDC7 (Cell Division Cycle 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and kinase activity.	Seems to phosphorylate critical substrates that regulate the G1/S phase transition and/or DNA replication. Can phosphorylates MCM2 and MCM3.	same
CDCA2	empty	CDCA2 (Cell Division Cycle Associated 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDCA2 include dermatophytosis.	Regulator of chromosome structure during mitosis required for condensin-depleted chromosomes to retain their compact architecture through anaphase. Acts by mediating the recruitment of phopsphatase PP1-gamma subunit (PPP1CC) to chromatin at anaphase and into the following interphase. At anaphase onset, its association with chromatin targets a pool of PPP1CC to dephosphorylate substrates.	same
CDCA3	empty	CDCA3 (Cell Division Cycle Associated 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDCA3 include clonorchiasis. Among its related pathways are Cell cycle_Role of APC in cell cycle regulation.	F-box-like protein which is required for entry into mitosis. Acts by participating in E3 ligase complexes that mediate the ubiquitination and degradation of WEE1 kinase at G2/M phase (By similarity).	same
CDCA5	empty	CDCA5 (Cell Division Cycle Associated 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDCA5 include roberts syndrome. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include chromatin binding.	Regulator of sister chromatid cohesion in mitosis stabilizing cohesin complex association with chromatin. May antagonize the action of WAPAL which stimulates cohesin dissociation from chromatin. Cohesion ensures that chromosome partitioning is accurate in both meiotic and mitotic cells and plays an important role in DNA repair. Required for efficient DNA double-stranded break repair.	same
CDC40	Pre-mRNA splicing occurs in two sequential transesterification steps. The protein encoded by this gene is found to be essential for the catalytic step II in pre-mRNA splicing process. It is found in the spliceosome, and contains seven WD repeats, which function in protein-protein interactions. This protein has a sequence similarity to yeast Prp17 protein, which functions in two different cellular processes: pre-mRNA splicing and cell cycle progression. It suggests that this protein may play a role in cell cycle progression. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDC40 (Cell Division Cycle 40) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and Spliceosome. An important paralog of this gene is WDR25.	Associates with the spliceosome late in the splicing pathway and may function in the second step of pre-mRNA splicing.	same
CDCA8	This gene encodes a component of the chromosomal passenger complex. This complex is an essential regulator of mitosis and cell division. This protein is cell-cycle regulated and is required for chromatin-induced microtubule stabilization and spindle formation. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Pseudgenes of this gene are found on chromosomes 7, 8 and 16. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2013]	CDCA8 (Cell Division Cycle Associated 8) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDCA8 include diphyllobothriasis. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic.	Component of the chromosomal passenger complex (CPC), a complex that acts as a key regulator of mitosis. The CPC complex has essential functions at the centromere in ensuring correct chromosome alignment and segregation and is required for chromatin-induced microtubule stabilization and spindle assembly. In the complex, it may be required to direct the CPC to centromeric DNA. Major effector of the TTK kinase in the control of attachment-error-correction and chromosome alignment.	same
CDCA7L	empty	CDCA7L (Cell Division Cycle Associated 7-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are SIDS Susceptibility Pathways. An important paralog of this gene is CDCA7.	Plays a role in transcriptional regulation as a repressor that inhibits monoamine oxidase A (MAOA) activity and gene expression by binding to the promoter. Plays an important oncogenic role in mediating the full transforming effect of MYC in medulloblastoma cells. Involved in apoptotic signaling pathways; May act downstream of P38-kinase and BCL-2, but upstream of CASP3/caspase-3 as well as CCND1/cyclin D1 and E2F1.	same
CDCA7	This gene was identified as a c-Myc responsive gene, and behaves as a direct c-Myc target gene. Overexpression of this gene is found to enhance the transformation of lymphoblastoid cells, and it complements a transformation-defective Myc Box II mutant, suggesting its involvement in c-Myc-mediated cell transformation. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDCA7 (Cell Division Cycle Associated 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDCA7 include mucinous cystadenocarcinoma. Among its related pathways are Validated targets of C-MYC transcriptional activation. An important paralog of this gene is CDCA7L.	Participates in MYC-mediated cell transformation and apoptosis; induces anchorage-independent growth and clonogenicity in lymphoblastoid cells. Insufficient to induce tumorigenicity when overexpressed but contributes to MYC-mediated tumorigenesis. May play a role as transcriptional regulator.	same
CDCP2	empty	CDCP2 (CUB Domain Containing Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is TLL1.	empty	same
CDCP1	This gene encodes a transmembrane protein which contains three extracellular CUB domains and acts as a substrate for Src family kinases. The protein plays a role in the tyrosine phosphorylation-dependent regulation of cellular events that are involved in tumor invasion and metastasis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants of this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2013]	CDCP1 (CUB Domain Containing Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Adhesion and Wnt / Hedgehog / Notch.	May be involved in cell adhesion and cell matrix association. May play a role in the regulation of anchorage versus migration or proliferation versus differentiation via its phosphorylation. May be a novel marker for leukemia diagnosis and for immature hematopoietic stem cell subsets. Belongs to the tetraspanin web involved in tumor progression and metastasis.	same
CDC42SE1	empty	CDC42SE1 (CDC42 Small Effector 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDC42SE1 include scarlet fever. Among its related pathways are Actin Nucleation by ARP-WASP Complex and G-protein signaling RAC1 in cellular process. GO annotations related to this gene include GTPase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDC42SE2.	Probably involved in the organization of the actin cytoskeleton by acting downstream of CDC42, inducing actin filament assembly. Alters CDC42-induced cell shape changes. In activated T-cells, may play a role in CDC42-mediated F-actin accumulation at the immunological synapse. May play a role in early contractile events in phagocytosis in macrophages.	same
CDH11	This gene encodes a type II classical cadherin from the cadherin superfamily, integral membrane proteins that mediate calcium-dependent cell-cell adhesion. Mature cadherin proteins are composed of a large N-terminal extracellular domain, a single membrane-spanning domain, and a small, highly conserved C-terminal cytoplasmic domain. Type II (atypical) cadherins are defined based on their lack of a HAV cell adhesion recognition sequence specific to type I cadherins. Expression of this particular cadherin in osteoblastic cell lines, and its upregulation during differentiation, suggests a specific function in bone development and maintenance. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDH11 (Cadherin 11, Type 2, OB-Cadherin (Osteoblast)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDH11 include aneurysmal bone cysts and malignant peritoneal mesothelioma. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDH19.	Cadherins are calcium-dependent cell adhesion proteins. They preferentially interact with themselves in a homophilic manner in connecting cells; cadherins may thus contribute to the sorting of heterogeneous cell types	same
CDC42SE2	empty	CDC42SE2 (CDC42 Small Effector 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include structural molecule activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDC42SE1.	Probably involved in the organization of the actin cytoskeleton by acting downstream of CDC42, inducing actin filament assembly. Alters CDC42-induced cell shape changes. In activated T-cells, may play a role in CDC42-mediated F-actin accumulation at the immunological synapse. May play a role in early contractile events in phagocytosis in macrophages.	same
CDH15	This gene is a member of the cadherin superfamily of genes, encoding calcium-dependent intercellular adhesion glycoproteins. Cadherins consist of an extracellular domain containing 5 cadherin domains, a transmembrane region, and a conserved cytoplasmic domain. Transcripts from this particular cadherin are expressed in myoblasts and upregulated in myotubule-forming cells. The protein is thought to be essential for the control of morphogenetic processes, specifically myogenesis, and may provide a trigger for terminal muscle cell differentiation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDH15 (Cadherin 15, Type 1, M-Cadherin (Myotubule)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDH15 include autosomal dominant non-syndromic intellectual disability and 16q24.3 microdeletion syndrome. Among its related pathways are L1CAM interactions and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDH13.	Cadherins are calcium-dependent cell adhesion proteins. They preferentially interact with themselves in a homophilic manner in connecting cells; cadherins may thus contribute to the sorting of heterogeneous cell types. M-cadherin is part of the myogenic program and may provide a trigger for terminal muscle differentiation	same
CDH16	This gene is a member of the cadherin superfamily, genes encoding calcium-dependent, membrane-associated glycoproteins. Mapped to a previously identified cluster of cadherin genes on chromosome 16q22.1, the gene localizes with superfamily members CDH1, CDH3, CDH5, CDH8 and CDH11. The protein consists of an extracellular domain containing 6 cadherin domains, a transmembrane region and a truncated cytoplasmic domain but lacks the prosequence and tripeptide HAV adhesion recognition sequence typical of most classical cadherins. Expression is exclusively in kidney, where the protein functions as the principal mediator of homotypic cellular recognition, playing a role in the morphogenic direction of tissue development. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]	CDH16 (Cadherin 16, KSP-Cadherin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDH16 include oxyphilic adenoma and tubulocystic carcinoma. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDH17.	Cadherins are calcium-dependent cell adhesion proteins. They preferentially interact with themselves in a homophilic manner in connecting cells; cadherins may thus contribute to the sorting of heterogeneous cell types	same
CDCA4	This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the E2F family of transcription factors. This protein regulates E2F-dependent transcriptional activation and cell proliferation, mainly through the E2F/retinoblastoma protein pathway. It also functions in the regulation of JUN oncogene expression. This protein shows distinctive nuclear-mitotic apparatus distribution, it is involved in spindle organization from prometaphase, and may also play a role as a midzone factor involved in chromosome segregation or cytokinesis. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been noted for this gene. Two pseudogenes have also been identified on chromosome 1. [provided by RefSeq, May 2014]	CDCA4 (Cell Division Cycle Associated 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDCA4 include herpes simplex. An important paralog of this gene is SERTAD2.	May participate in the regulation of cell proliferation through the E2F/RB pathway. May be involved in molecular regulation of hematopoietic stem cells and progenitor cell lineage commitment and differentiation (By similarity).	same
CDH18	This gene encodes a type II classical cadherin from the cadherin superfamily of integral membrane proteins that mediate calcium-dependent cell-cell adhesion. Mature cadherin proteins are composed of a large N-terminal extracellular domain, a single membrane-spanning domain, and a small, highly conserved C-terminal cytoplasmic domain. Type II (atypical) cadherins are defined based on their lack of a HAV cell adhesion recognition sequence specific to type I cadherins. This particular cadherin is expressed specifically in the central nervous system and is putatively involved in synaptic adhesion, axon outgrowth and guidance. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2014]	CDH18 (Cadherin 18, Type 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDH19.	Cadherins are calcium-dependent cell adhesion proteins. They preferentially interact with themselves in a homophilic manner in connecting cells; cadherins may thus contribute to the sorting of heterogeneous cell types	same
CDH1	This gene is a classical cadherin from the cadherin superfamily. The encoded protein is a calcium dependent cell-cell adhesion glycoprotein comprised of five extracellular cadherin repeats, a transmembrane region and a highly conserved cytoplasmic tail. Mutations in this gene are correlated with gastric, breast, colorectal, thyroid and ovarian cancer. Loss of function is thought to contribute to progression in cancer by increasing proliferation, invasion, and/or metastasis. The ectodomain of this protein mediates bacterial adhesion to mammalian cells and the cytoplasmic domain is required for internalization. Identified transcript variants arise from mutation at consensus splice sites. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDH1 (Cadherin 1, Type 1, E-Cadherin (Epithelial)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDH1 include familial gastric cancer and gastric linitis plastica. Among its related pathways are Glioma and Ras signaling pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and beta-catenin binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDH13.	Cadherins are calcium-dependent cell adhesion proteins. They preferentially interact with themselves in a homophilic manner in connecting cells; cadherins may thus contribute to the sorting of heterogeneous cell types. CDH1 is involved in mechanisms regulating cell-cell adhesions, mobility and proliferation of epithelial cells. Has a potent invasive suppressor role. It is a ligand for integrin alpha-E/beta-7.	same
CDH20	This gene is a type II classical cadherin from the cadherin superfamily and one of three cadherin 7-like genes located in a cluster on chromosome 18. The encoded membrane protein is a calcium dependent cell-cell adhesion glycoprotein comprised of five extracellular cadherin repeats, a transmembrane region and a highly conserved cytoplasmic tail. Type II (atypical) cadherins are defined based on their lack of a HAV cell adhesion recognition sequence specific to type I cadherins. Since disturbance of intracellular adhesion is a prerequisite for invasion and metastasis of tumor cells, cadherins are considered prime candidates for tumor suppressor genes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDH20 (Cadherin 20, Type 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDH19.	Cadherins are calcium-dependent cell adhesion proteins. They preferentially interact with themselves in a homophilic manner in connecting cells; cadherins may thus contribute to the sorting of heterogeneous cell types	same
CDH22	This gene is a member of the cadherin superfamily. The gene product is composed of five cadherin repeat domains and a cytoplasmic tail similar to the highly conserved cytoplasmic region of classical cadherins. Expressed predominantly in the brain, this putative calcium-dependent cell adhesion protein may play an important role in morphogenesis and tissue formation in neural and non-neural cells during development and maintenance of the brain and neuroendocrine organs. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDH22 (Cadherin 22, Type 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDH19.	Cadherins are calcium-dependent cell adhesion proteins. They preferentially interact with themselves in a homophilic manner in connecting cells; cadherins may thus contribute to the sorting of heterogeneous cell types. PB-cadherins may have a role in the morphological organization of pituitary gland and brain tissues (By similarity).	same
CDH23	This gene is a member of the cadherin superfamily, whose genes encode calcium dependent cell-cell adhesion glycoproteins. The encoded protein is thought to be involved in stereocilia organization and hair bundle formation. The gene is located in a region containing the human deafness loci DFNB12 and USH1D. Usher syndrome 1D and nonsyndromic autosomal recessive deafness DFNB12 are caused by allelic mutations of this cadherin-like gene. Upregulation of this gene may also be associated with breast cancer. Alternative splice variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, May 2013]	CDH23 (Cadherin-Related 23) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDH23 include deafness, autosomal recessive 12 and usher syndrome, type 1d. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding.	Cadherins are calcium-dependent cell adhesion proteins. They preferentially interact with themselves in a homophilic manner in connecting cells. CDH23 is required for establishing and/or maintaining the proper organization of the stereocilia bundle of hair cells in the cochlea and the vestibule during late embryonic/early postnatal development. It is part of the functional network formed by USH1C, USH1G, CDH23 and MYO7A that mediates mechanotransduction in cochlear hair cells. Required for normal hearing	same
CDH26	Cadherins are a family of adhesion molecules that mediate Ca2+-dependent cell-cell adhesion in all solid tissues and modulate a wide variety of processes, including cell polarization and migration. Cadherin domains occur as repeats in the extracellular region and are thought to contribute to the sorting of heterogeneous cell types and the maintenance of orderly structures such as epithelium. This gene encodes a cadherin domain-containing protein whose specific function has not yet been determined. Alternative splicing occurs at this locus and two transcript variants, encoding distinct proteins, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDH26 (Cadherin 26) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDH13.	Cadherins are calcium-dependent cell adhesion proteins. They preferentially interact with themselves in a homophilic manner in connecting cells; cadherins may thus contribute to the sorting of heterogeneous cell types	same
CDH2	This gene is a classical cadherin from the cadherin superfamily. The encoded protein is a calcium dependent cell-cell adhesion glycoprotein comprised of five extracellular cadherin repeats, a transmembrane region and a highly conserved cytoplasmic tail. The protein functions during gastrulation and is required for establishment of left-right asymmetry. At certain central nervous system synapses, presynaptic to postsynaptic adhesion is mediated at least in part by this gene product. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDH2 (Cadherin 2, Type 1, N-Cadherin (Neuronal)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDH2 include hypoplastic left heart syndrome and pseudomyxoma peritonei. Among its related pathways are L1CAM interactions and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and protein phosphatase binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDH13.	Cadherins are calcium-dependent cell adhesion proteins. They preferentially interact with themselves in a homophilic manner in connecting cells; cadherins may thus contribute to the sorting of heterogeneous cell types. Acts as a regulator of neural stem cells quiescence by mediating anchorage of neural stem cells to ependymocytes in the adult subependymal zone: upon cleavage by MMP24, CDH2-mediated anchorage is affected, leading to modulate neural stem cell quiescence. CDH2 may be involved in neuronal recognition mechanism. In hippocampal neurons, may regulate dendritic spine density (By similarity).	same
CDH6	This gene encodes a member of the cadherin superfamily. Cadherins are membrane glycoproteins that mediate homophilic cell-cell adhesion and play critical roles in cell differentiation and morphogenesis. The encoded protein is a type II cadherin and may play a role in kidney development as well as endometrium and placenta formation. Decreased expression of this gene may be associated with tumor growth and metastasis. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]	CDH6 (Cadherin 6, Type 2, K-Cadherin (Fetal Kidney)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDH19.	Cadherins are calcium-dependent cell adhesion proteins. They preferentially interact with themselves in a homophilic manner in connecting cells; cadherins may thus contribute to the sorting of heterogeneous cell types	same
CDH3	This gene is a classical cadherin from the cadherin superfamily. The encoded protein is a calcium-dependent cell-cell adhesion glycoprotein comprised of five extracellular cadherin repeats, a transmembrane region and a highly conserved cytoplasmic tail. This gene is located in a six-cadherin cluster in a region on the long arm of chromosome 16 that is involved in loss of heterozygosity events in breast and prostate cancer. In addition, aberrant expression of this protein is observed in cervical adenocarcinomas. Mutations in this gene have been associated with congential hypotrichosis with juvenile macular dystrophy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDH3 (Cadherin 3, Type 1, P-Cadherin (Placental)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDH3 include hypotrichosis, congenital, with juvenile macular dystrophy and ectodermal dysplasia, ectrodactyly, and macular dystrophy. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDH13.	Cadherins are calcium-dependent cell adhesion proteins. They preferentially interact with themselves in a homophilic manner in connecting cells; cadherins may thus contribute to the sorting of heterogeneous cell types	same
CDH4	This gene is a classical cadherin from the cadherin superfamily. The encoded protein is a calcium-dependent cell-cell adhesion glycoprotein comprised of five extracellular cadherin repeats, a transmembrane region and a highly conserved cytoplasmic tail. Based on studies in chicken and mouse, this cadherin is thought to play an important role during brain segmentation and neuronal outgrowth. In addition, a role in kidney and muscle development is indicated. Of particular interest are studies showing stable cis-heterodimers of cadherins 2 and 4 in cotransfected cell lines. Previously thought to interact in an exclusively homophilic manner, this is the first evidence of cadherin heterodimerization. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]	CDH4 (Cadherin 4, Type 1, R-Cadherin (Retinal)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are L1CAM interactions and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDH13.	Cadherins are calcium-dependent cell adhesion proteins. They preferentially interact with themselves in a homophilic manner in connecting cells; cadherins may thus contribute to the sorting of heterogeneous cell types. May play an important role in retinal development	same
CDH7	This gene is a type II classical cadherin from the cadherin superfamily. The encoded membrane protein is a calcium dependent cell-cell adhesion glycoprotein comprised of five extracellular cadherin repeats, a transmembrane region and a highly conserved cytoplasmic tail. Type II (atypical) cadherins are defined based on their lack of a HAV cell adhesion recognition sequence specific to type I cadherins. Cadherins mediate cell-cell binding in a homophilic manner, contributing to the sorting of heterogeneous cell types and the maintenance of orderly structures. Alternative splicing in the 5' UTR of this gene yields variant transcripts encoding the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDH7 (Cadherin 7, Type 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDH7 include charge syndrome. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDH19.	Cadherins are calcium-dependent cell adhesion proteins. They preferentially interact with themselves in a homophilic manner in connecting cells; cadherins may thus contribute to the sorting of heterogeneous cell types	same
CDH10	This gene encodes a type II classical cadherin from the cadherin superfamily, integral membrane proteins that mediate calcium-dependent cell-cell adhesion. Mature cadherin proteins are composed of a large N-terminal extracellular domain, a single membrane-spanning domain, and a small, highly conserved C-terminal cytoplasmic domain. The extracellular domain consists of 5 subdomains, each containing a cadherin motif, and appears to determine the specificity of the protein's homophilic cell adhesion activity. Type II (atypical) cadherins are defined based on their lack of a HAV cell adhesion recognition sequence specific to type I cadherins. This particular cadherin is predominantly expressed in brain and is putatively involved in synaptic adhesions, axon outgrowth and guidance. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]	CDH10 (Cadherin 10, Type 2 (T2-Cadherin)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDH19.	Cadherins are calcium-dependent cell adhesion proteins. They preferentially interact with themselves in a homophilic manner in connecting cells; cadherins may thus contribute to the sorting of heterogeneous cell types	same
CDH17	This gene is a member of the cadherin superfamily, genes encoding calcium-dependent, membrane-associated glycoproteins. The encoded protein is cadherin-like, consisting of an extracellular region, containing 7 cadherin domains, and a transmembrane region but lacking the conserved cytoplasmic domain. The protein is a component of the gastrointestinal tract and pancreatic ducts, acting as an intestinal proton-dependent peptide transporter in the first step in oral absorption of many medically important peptide-based drugs. The protein may also play a role in the morphological organization of liver and intestine. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]	CDH17 (Cadherin 17, LI Cadherin (Liver-Intestine)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and proton-dependent oligopeptide secondary active transmembrane transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDH16.	Cadherins are calcium-dependent cell adhesion proteins. They preferentially interact with themselves in a homophilic manner in connecting cells; cadherins may thus contribute to the sorting of heterogeneous cell types. LI-cadherin may have a role in the morphological organization of liver and intestine. Involved in intestinal peptide transport.	same
CDH12	This gene encodes a type II classical cadherin from the cadherin superfamily of integral membrane proteins that mediate calcium-dependent cell-cell adhesion. Mature cadherin proteins are composed of a large N-terminal extracellular domain, a single membrane-spanning domain, and a small, highly conserved C-terminal cytoplasmic domain. Type II (atypical) cadherins are defined based on their lack of a HAV cell adhesion recognition sequence specific to type I cadherins. This particular cadherin appears to be expressed specifically in the brain and its temporal pattern of expression would be consistent with a role during a critical period of neuronal development, perhaps specifically during synaptogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDH12 (Cadherin 12, Type 2 (N-Cadherin 2)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDH12 include meconium aspiration syndrome. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDH19.	Cadherins are calcium-dependent cell adhesion proteins. They preferentially interact with themselves in a homophilic manner in connecting cells; cadherins may thus contribute to the sorting of heterogeneous cell types	same
CDH8	This gene encodes a type II classical cadherin from the cadherin superfamily, integral membrane proteins that mediate calcium-dependent cell-cell adhesion. Mature cadherin proteins are composed of a large N-terminal extracellular domain, a single membrane-spanning domain, and a small, highly conserved C-terminal cytoplasmic domain. The extracellular domain consists of 5 subdomains, each containing a cadherin motif, and appears to determine the specificity of the protein's homophilic cell adhesion activity. Type II (atypical) cadherins are defined based on their lack of a HAV cell adhesion recognition sequence specific to type I cadherins. This particular cadherin is expressed in brain and is putatively involved in synaptic adhesion, axon outgrowth and guidance. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDH8 (Cadherin 8, Type 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDH8 include learning disability. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDH19.	Cadherins are calcium-dependent cell adhesion proteins. They preferentially interact with themselves in a homophilic manner in connecting cells; cadherins may thus contribute to the sorting of heterogeneous cell types	same
CDH24	empty	CDH24 (Cadherin 24, Type 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and alpha-catenin binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDH19.	Cadherins are calcium-dependent cell adhesion proteins. They preferentially interact with themselves in a homophilic manner in connecting cells; cadherins may thus contribute to the sorting of heterogeneous cell types. Cadherin-24 mediate strong cell-cell adhesion.	same
CDH9	This gene encodes a type II classical cadherin from the cadherin superfamily, integral membrane proteins that mediate calcium-dependent cell-cell adhesion. Mature cadherin proteins are composed of a large N-terminal extracellular domain, a single membrane-spanning domain, and a small, highly conserved C-terminal cytoplasmic domain. The extracellular domain consists of 5 subdomains, each containing a cadherin motif, and appears to determine the specificity of the protein's homophilic cell adhesion activity. Type II (atypical) cadherins are defined based on their lack of a HAV cell adhesion recognition sequence specific to type I cadherins. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDH9 (Cadherin 9, Type 2 (T1-Cadherin)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDH9 include benign epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDH19.	Cadherins are calcium-dependent cell adhesion proteins. They preferentially interact with themselves in a homophilic manner in connecting cells; cadherins may thus contribute to the sorting of heterogeneous cell types	same
CDHR2	This gene is a member of the protocadherin family, which represents a subset of the larger cadherin superfamily. The members of the protocadherin family encode non-classical cadherins that function as calcium-dependent cell-cell adhesion molecules. This protocadherin represents a new candidate for tumor suppression. Alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode the same protein have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]	CDHR2 (Cadherin-Related Family Member 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDHR1.	Role in contact inhibition at the lateral surface of epithelial cells.	same
CDHR3	empty	CDHR3 (Cadherin-Related Family Member 3) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDHR4.	Cadherins are calcium-dependent cell adhesion proteins. They preferentially interact with themselves in a homophilic manner in connecting cells; cadherins may thus contribute to the sorting of heterogeneous cell types	same
CDH13	This gene encodes a member of the cadherin superfamily. The encoded protein is localized to the surface of the cell membrane and is anchored by a GPI moiety, rather than by a transmembrane domain. The protein lacks the cytoplasmic domain characteristic of other cadherins, and so is not thought to be a cell-cell adhesion glycoprotein. This protein acts as a negative regulator of axon growth during neural differentiation. It also protects vascular endothelial cells from apoptosis due to oxidative stress, and is associated with resistance to atherosclerosis. The gene is hypermethylated in many types of cancer. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]	CDH13 (Cadherin 13) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDH13 include atherosclerosis. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and cadherin binding. An important paralog of this gene is DSG2.	Cadherins are calcium-dependent cell adhesion proteins. They preferentially interact with themselves in a homophilic manner in connecting cells; cadherins may thus contribute to the sorting of heterogeneous cell types. May act as a negative regulator of neural cell growth.	same
CDH5	This gene is a classical cadherin from the cadherin superfamily and is located in a six-cadherin cluster in a region on the long arm of chromosome 16 that is involved in loss of heterozygosity events in breast and prostate cancer. The encoded protein is a calcium-dependent cell-cell adhesion glycoprotein comprised of five extracellular cadherin repeats, a transmembrane region and a highly conserved cytoplasmic tail. Functioning as a classic cadherin by imparting to cells the ability to adhere in a homophilic manner, the protein may play an important role in endothelial cell biology through control of the cohesion and organization of the intercellular junctions. An alternative splice variant has been described but its full length sequence has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDH5 (Cadherin 5, Type 2 (Vascular Endothelium)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDH5 include angiosarcoma of the scalp and angiosarcoma. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and ion channel binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDH19.	Cadherins are calcium-dependent cell adhesion proteins. They preferentially interact with themselves in a homophilic manner in connecting cells; cadherins may thus contribute to the sorting of heterogeneous cell types. This cadherin may play a important role in endothelial cell biology through control of the cohesion and organization of the intercellular junctions. It associates with alpha-catenin forming a link to the cytoskeleton. Acts in concert with KRIT1 to establish and maintain correct endothelial cell polarity and vascular lumen. These effects are mediated by recruitment and activation of the Par polarity complex and RAP1B. Required for activation of PRKCZ and for the localization of phosphorylated PRKCZ, PARD3, TIAM1 and RAP1B to the cell junction.	same
CDH19	This gene is one of three related type II cadherin genes situated in a cluster on chromosome 18. The encoded protein is a calcium dependent cell-cell adhesion glycoprotein containing five extracellular cadherin repeats. Loss of cadherins may be associated with cancer formation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012]	CDH19 (Cadherin 19, Type 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDH19 include van maldergem syndrome 1. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDH5.	Cadherins are calcium-dependent cell adhesion proteins. They preferentially interact with themselves in a homophilic manner in connecting cells; cadherins may thus contribute to the sorting of heterogeneous cell types	same
CDIPT	Phosphatidylinositol breakdown products are ubiquitous second messengers that function downstream of many G protein-coupled receptors and tyrosine kinases regulating cell growth, calcium metabolism, and protein kinase C activity. Two enzymes, CDP-diacylglycerol synthase and phosphatidylinositol synthase, are involved in the biosynthesis of phosphatidylinositol. Phosphatidylinositol synthase, a member of the CDP-alcohol phosphatidyl transferase class-I family, is an integral membrane protein found on the cytoplasmic side of the endoplasmic reticulum and the Golgi apparatus. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2013]	CDIPT (CDP-Diacylglycerol--Inositol 3-Phosphatidyltransferase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDIPT include fibromuscular dysplasia. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding and diacylglycerol binding.	Catalyzes the biosynthesis of phosphatidylinositol (PtdIns) as well as PtdIns:inositol exchange reaction. May thus act to reduce an excessive cellular PtdIns content. The exchange activity is due to the reverse reaction of PtdIns synthase and is dependent on CMP, which is tightly bound to the enzyme.	same
CDHR1	This gene belongs to the cadherin superfamily of calcium-dependent cell adhesion molecules. The encoded protein is a photoreceptor-specific cadherin that plays a role in outer segment disc morphogenesis. Mutations in this gene are associated with inherited retinal dystrophies. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]	CDHR1 (Cadherin-Related Family Member 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDHR1 include cone-rod dystrophy 15 and cone-rod dystrophy 6. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDHR2.	Potential calcium-dependent cell-adhesion protein. May be required for the structural integrity of the outer segment (OS) of photoreceptor cells (By similarity).	same
CDK10	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the CDK subfamily of the Ser/Thr protein kinase family. The CDK subfamily members are highly similar to the gene products of S. cerevisiae cdc28, and S. pombe cdc2, and are known to be essential for cell cycle progression. This kinase has been shown to play a role in cellular proliferation and its function is limited to cell cycle G2-M phase. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2009]	CDK10 (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 10) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDK10 include star syndrome. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle Control of Chromosomal Replication and GADD45 Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDK12.	Cyclin-dependent kinase that phosphorylates the transcription factor ETS2 (in vitro) and positively controls its proteasomal degradation (in cells).	same
CDK12	empty	CDK12 (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 12) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle / Checkpoint Control and Cell Cycle / Checkpoint Control. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase activity and RNA polymerase II carboxy-terminal domain kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDK13.	Cyclin-dependent kinase that phosphorylates the C-terminal domain (CTD) of the large subunit of RNA polymerase II (POLR2A), thereby acting as a key regulator of transcription elongation. Regulates the expression of genes involved in DNA repair and is required for the maintenance of genomic stability. Preferentially phosphorylates Ser-5 in CTD repeats that are already phosphorylated at Ser-7, but can also phosphorylate Ser-2. Required for RNA splicing, possibly by phosphorylating SRSF1/SF2. Involved in regulation of MAP kinase activity, possibly leading to affect the response to estrogen inhibitors.	same
CDHR4	empty	CDHR4 (Cadherin-Related Family Member 4) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDHR3.	Cadherins are calcium-dependent cell adhesion proteins. They preferentially interact with themselves in a homophilic manner in connecting cells; cadherins may thus contribute to the sorting of heterogeneous cell types (By similarity).	same
CDK13	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the cyclin-dependent serine/threonine protein kinase family. Members of this family are well known for their essential roles as master switches in cell cycle control. The exact function of this protein has not yet been determined, but it may play a role in mRNA processing and may be involved in regulation of hematopoiesis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]	CDK13 (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 13) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase activity and RNA polymerase II carboxy-terminal domain kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDK12.	Cyclin-dependent kinase which displays CTD kinase activity and is required for RNA splicing. Has CTD kinase activity by hyperphosphorylating the C-terminal heptapeptide repeat domain (CTD) of the largest RNA polymerase II subunit RPB1, thereby acting as a key regulator of transcription elongation. Required for RNA splicing, probably by phosphorylating SRSF1/SF2. Required during hematopoiesis. In case of infection by HIV-1 virus, interacts with HIV-1 Tat protein acetylated at Lys-50 and Lys-51, thereby increasing HIV-1 mRNA splicing and promoting the production of the doubly spliced HIV-1 protein Nef.	same
CDK15	empty	CDK15 (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 15) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDK15 include lateral sclerosis. GO annotations related to this gene include cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDK5.	Serine/threonine-protein kinase that acts like an antiapoptotic protein that counters TRAIL/TNFSF10-induced apoptosis by inducing phosphorylation of BIRC5 at Thr-34.	same
CDK11B	This gene encodes a member of the serine/threonine protein kinase family. Members of this kinase family are known to be essential for eukaryotic cell cycle control. Due to a segmental duplication, this gene shares very high sequence identity with a neighboring gene. These two genes are frequently deleted or altered in neuroblastoma. The protein kinase encoded by this gene can be cleaved by caspases and may play a role in cell apoptosis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2014]	CDK11B (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 11B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDK11B include childhood endodermal sinus tumor and endodermal sinus tumor. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDK12.	Appears to play multiple roles in cell cycle progression, cytokinesis and apoptosis. The p110 isoforms have been suggested to be involved in pre-mRNA splicing, potentially by phosphorylating the splicing protein SFRS7. The p58 isoform may act as a negative regulator of normal cell cycle progression.	same
CDK14	PFTK1 is a member of the CDC2 (MIM 116940)-related protein kinase family (Yang and Chen, 2001 [PubMed 11313143]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CDK14 (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 14) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Transcriptional misregulation in cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity and cyclin binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDK15.	Serine/threonine-protein kinase involved in the control of the eukaryotic cell cycle, whose activity is controlled by an associated cyclin. Acts as a cell-cycle regulator of Wnt signaling pathway during G2/M phase by mediating the phosphorylation of LRP6 at Ser-1490, leading to the activation of the Wnt signaling pathway. Acts as a regulator of cell cycle progression and cell proliferation via its interaction with CCDN3. Phosphorylates RB1 in vitro, however the relevance of such result remains to be confirmed in vivo. May also play a role in meiosis, neuron differentiation and may indirectly act as a negative regulator of insulin-responsive glucose transport.	same
CDK17	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the cdc2/cdkx subfamily of the ser/thr family of protein kinases. It has similarity to a rat protein that is thought to play a role in terminally differentiated neurons. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]	CDK17 (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 17) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase activity and cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDK15.	May play a role in terminally differentiated neurons. Has a Ser/Thr-phosphorylating activity for histone H1 (By similarity).	same
CDK18	empty	CDK18 (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 18) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDK15.	May play a role in signal transduction cascades in terminally differentiated cells	same
CDK16	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the cdc2/cdkx subfamily of the ser/thr family of protein kinases. It may play a role in signal transduction cascades in terminally differentiated cells; in exocytosis; and in transport of secretory cargo from the endoplasmic reticulum. This gene is thought to escape X inactivation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]	CDK16 (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 16) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDK15.	Protein kinase that plays a role in vesicle-mediated transport processes and exocytosis. Regulates GH1 release by brain neurons. Phosphorylates NSF, and thereby regulates NSF oligomerization. Required for normal spermatogenesis. Regulates neuron differentiation and dendrite development (By similarity). Plays a role in the regulation of insulin secretion in response to changes in blood glucose levels. Can phosphorylate CCNY at Ser-336 (in vitro).	same
CDK20	The protein encoded by this gene contains a kinase domain most closely related to the cyclin-dependent protein kinases. The encoded kinase may activate cyclin-dependent kinase 2 and is involved in cell growth. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]	CDK20 (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 20) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDK20 include mantle cell lymphoma. GO annotations related to this gene include cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDKL3.	Required for high-level Shh responses in the developing neural tube. Together with TBC1D32, controls the structure of the primary cilium by coordinating assembly of the ciliary membrane and axoneme, allowing GLI2 to be properly activated in response to SHH signaling (By similarity). Involved in cell growth. Activates CDK2, a kinase involved in the control of the cell cycle, by phosphorylating residue Thr-160.	same
CDK2	This gene encodes a member of a family of serine/threonine protein kinases that participate in cell cycle regulation. The encoded protein is the catalytic subunit of the cyclin-dependent protein kinase complex, which regulates progression through the cell cycle. Activity of this protein is especially critical during the G1 to S phase transition. This protein associates with and regulated by other subunits of the complex including cyclin A or E, CDK inhibitor p21Cip1 (CDKN1A), and p27Kip1 (CDKN1B). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2014]	CDK2 (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDK2 include tetraploidy and melanoma. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Pathways in cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity and histone kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDK1.	Serine/threonine-protein kinase involved in the control of the cell cycle; essential for meiosis, but dispensable for mitosis. Phosphorylates CTNNB1, USP37, p53/TP53, NPM1, CDK7, RB1, BRCA2, MYC, NPAT, EZH2. Interacts with cyclins A, B1, B3, D, or E. Triggers duplication of centrosomes and DNA. Acts at the G1-S transition to promote the E2F transcriptional program and the initiation of DNA synthesis, and modulates G2 progression; controls the timing of entry into mitosis/meiosis by controlling the subsequent activation of cyclin B/CDK1 by phosphorylation, and coordinates the activation of cyclin B/CDK1 at the centrosome and in the nucleus. Crucial role in orchestrating a fine balance between cellular proliferation, cell death, and DNA repair in human embryonic stem cells (hESCs). Activity of CDK2 is maximal during S phase and G2; activated by interaction with cyclin E during the early stages of DNA synthesis to permit G1-S transition, and subsequently activated by cyclin A2 (cyclin A1 in germ cells) during the late stages of DNA replication to drive the transition from S phase to mitosis, the G2 phase. EZH2 phosphorylation promotes H3K27me3 maintenance and epigenetic gene silencing. Phosphorylates CABLES1 (By similarity). Cyclin E/CDK2 prevents oxidative stress-mediated Ras-induced senescence by phosphorylating MYC. Involved in G1-S phase DNA damage checkpoint that prevents cells with damaged DNA from initiating mitosis; regulates homologous recombination-dependent repair by phosphorylating BRCA2, this phosphorylation is low in S phase when recombination is active, but increases as cells progress towards mitosis. In response to DNA damage, double-strand break repair by homologous recombination a reduction of CDK2-mediated BRCA2 phosphorylation. Phosphorylation of RB1 disturbs its interaction with E2F1. NPM1 phosphorylation by cyclin E/CDK2 promotes its dissociates from unduplicated centrosomes, thus initiating centrosome duplication. Cyclin E/CDK2-mediated phosphorylation of NPAT at G1-S transition and until prophase stimulates the NPAT-mediated activation of histone gene transcription during S phase. Required for vitamin D-mediated growth inhibition by being itself inactivated. Involved in the nitric oxide- (NO) mediated signaling in a nitrosylation/activation-dependent manner. USP37 is activated by phosphorylation and thus triggers G1-S transition. CTNNB1 phosphorylation regulates insulin internalization. Phosphorylates FOXP3 and negatively regulates its transcriptional activity and protein stability (By similarity).	same
CDHR5	This gene is a novel mucin-like gene that is a member of the cadherin superfamily. While encoding nonpolymorphic tandem repeats rich in proline, serine and threonine similar to mucin proteins, the gene also contains sequence encoding calcium-binding motifs found in all cadherins. The role of the hybrid extracellular region and the specific function of this protein have not yet been determined. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]	CDHR5 (Cadherin-Related Family Member 5) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding.	Acts as a calcium-dependent cell adhesion protein.	same
CDK3	This gene encodes a member of the cyclin-dependent protein kinase family. The protein promotes entry into S phase, in part by activating members of the E2F family of transcription factors. The protein also associates with cyclin C and phosphorylates the retinoblastoma 1 protein to promote exit from G0. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDK3 (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle Control of Chromosomal Replication and GADD45 Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDK1.	Serine/threonine-protein kinase that plays a critical role in the control of the eukaryotic cell cycle; involved in G0-G1 and G1-S cell cycle transitions. Interacts with CCNC/cyclin-C during interphase. Phosphorylates histone H1, ATF1, RB1 and CABLES1. ATF1 phosphorylation triggers ATF1 transactivation and transcriptional activities, and promotes cell proliferation and transformation. CDK3/cyclin-C mediated RB1 phosphorylation is required for G0-G1 transition. Promotes G1-S transition probably by contributing to the activation of E2F1, E2F2 and E2F3 in a RB1-independent manner.	same
CDK1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Ser/Thr protein kinase family. This protein is a catalytic subunit of the highly conserved protein kinase complex known as M-phase promoting factor (MPF), which is essential for G1/S and G2/M phase transitions of eukaryotic cell cycle. Mitotic cyclins stably associate with this protein and function as regulatory subunits. The kinase activity of this protein is controlled by cyclin accumulation and destruction through the cell cycle. The phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of this protein also play important regulatory roles in cell cycle control. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]	CDK1 (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDK1 include thyroid lymphoma and melanoma. Among its related pathways are PI-3K cascade and PI-3K cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase activity and RNA polymerase II carboxy-terminal domain kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDK4.	Plays a key role in the control of the eukaryotic cell cycle by modulating the centrosome cycle as well as mitotic onset; promotes G2-M transition, and regulates G1 progress and G1-S transition via association with multiple interphase cyclins. Required in higher cells for entry into S-phase and mitosis. Phosphorylates PARVA/actopaxin, APC, AMPH, APC, BARD1, Bcl-xL/BCL2L1, BRCA2, CALD1, CASP8, CDC7, CDC20, CDC25A, CDC25C, CC2D1A, CSNK2 proteins/CKII, FZR1/CDH1, CDK7, CEBPB, CHAMP1, DMD/dystrophin, EEF1 proteins/EF-1, EZH2, KIF11/EG5, EGFR, FANCG, FOS, GFAP, GOLGA2/GM130, GRASP1, UBE2A/hHR6A, HIST1H1 proteins/histone H1, HMGA1, HIVEP3/KRC, LMNA, LMNB, LMNC, LBR, LATS1, MAP1B, MAP4, MARCKS, MCM2, MCM4, MKLP1, MYB, NEFH, NFIC, NPC/nuclear pore complex, PITPNM1/NIR2, NPM1, NCL, NUCKS1, NPM1/numatrin, ORC1, PRKAR2A, EEF1E1/p18, EIF3F/p47, p53/TP53, NONO/p54NRB, PAPOLA, PLEC/plectin, RB1, UL40/R2, RAB4A, RAP1GAP, RCC1, RPS6KB1/S6K1, KHDRBS1/SAM68, ESPL1, SKI, BIRC5/survivin, STIP1, TEX14, beta-tubulins, MAPT/TAU, NEDD1, VIM/vimentin, TK1, FOXO1, RUNX1/AML1, SIRT2 and RUNX2. CDK1/CDC2-cyclin-B controls pronuclear union in interphase fertilized eggs. Essential for early stages of embryonic development. During G2 and early mitosis, CDC25A/B/C-mediated dephosphorylation activates CDK1/cyclin complexes which phosphorylate several substrates that trigger at least centrosome separation, Golgi dynamics, nuclear envelope breakdown and chromosome condensation. Once chromosomes are condensed and aligned at the metaphase plate, CDK1 activity is switched off by WEE1- and PKMYT1-mediated phosphorylation to allow sister chromatid separation, chromosome decondensation, reformation of the nuclear envelope and cytokinesis. Inactivated by PKR/EIF2AK2- and WEE1-mediated phosphorylation upon DNA damage to stop cell cycle and genome replication at the G2 checkpoint thus facilitating DNA repair. Reactivated after successful DNA repair through WIP1-dependent signaling leading to CDC25A/B/C-mediated dephosphorylation and restoring cell cycle progression. In proliferating cells, CDK1-mediated FOXO1 phosphorylation at the G2-M phase represses FOXO1 interaction with 14-3-3 proteins and thereby promotes FOXO1 nuclear accumulation and transcription factor activity, leading to cell death of postmitotic neurons. The phosphorylation of beta-tubulins regulates microtubule dynamics during mitosis. NEDD1 phosphorylation promotes PLK1-mediated NEDD1 phosphorylation and subsequent targeting of the gamma-tubulin ring complex (gTuRC) to the centrosome, an important step for spindle formation. In addition, CC2D1A phosphorylation regulates CC2D1A spindle pole localization and association with SCC1/RAD21 and centriole cohesion during mitosis. The phosphorylation of Bcl-xL/BCL2L1 after prolongated G2 arrest upon DNA damage triggers apoptosis. In contrast, CASP8 phosphorylation during mitosis prevents its activation by proteolysis and subsequent apoptosis. This phosphorylation occurs in cancer cell lines, as well as in primary breast tissues and lymphocytes. EZH2 phosphorylation promotes H3K27me3 maintenance and epigenetic gene silencing. CALD1 phosphorylation promotes Schwann cell migration during peripheral nerve regeneration.	same
CDK4	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Ser/Thr protein kinase family. This protein is highly similar to the gene products of S. cerevisiae cdc28 and S. pombe cdc2. It is a catalytic subunit of the protein kinase complex that is important for cell cycle G1 phase progression. The activity of this kinase is restricted to the G1-S phase, which is controlled by the regulatory subunits D-type cyclins and CDK inhibitor p16(INK4a). This kinase was shown to be responsible for the phosphorylation of retinoblastoma gene product (Rb). Mutations in this gene as well as in its related proteins including D-type cyclins, p16(INK4a) and Rb were all found to be associated with tumorigenesis of a variety of cancers. Multiple polyadenylation sites of this gene have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDK4 (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDK4 include melanoma, cutaneous malignant, 3 and cdk4-related cutaneous malignant melanoma. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Glioma. GO annotations related to this gene include protein complex binding and cyclin binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDK1.	Ser/Thr-kinase component of cyclin D-CDK4 (DC) complexes that phosphorylate and inhibit members of the retinoblastoma (RB) protein family including RB1 and regulate the cell-cycle during G(1)/S transition. Phosphorylation of RB1 allows dissociation of the transcription factor E2F from the RB/E2F complexes and the subsequent transcription of E2F target genes which are responsible for the progression through the G(1) phase. Hypophosphorylates RB1 in early G(1) phase. Cyclin D-CDK4 complexes are major integrators of various mitogenenic and antimitogenic signals. Also phosphorylates SMAD3 in a cell-cycle-dependent manner and represses its transcriptional activity. Component of the ternary complex, cyclin D/CDK4/CDKN1B, required for nuclear translocation and activity of the cyclin D-CDK4 complex.	same
CDK5RAP1	This gene encodes a regulator of cyclin-dependent kinase 5 activity. This protein has also been reported to modify RNA by adding a methylthio-group and may thus have a dual function as an RNA methylthiotransferase and as an inhibitor of cyclin-dependent kinase 5 activity. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, May 2013]	CDK5RAP1 (CDK5 Regulatory Subunit Associated Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDK5RAP1 include mikulicz disease. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and 4 iron, 4 sulfur cluster binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDKAL1.	Specifically inhibits CDK5 activation by CDK5R1	same
CDK11A	This gene encodes a member of the p34Cdc2 protein kinase family. p34Cdc2 kinase family members are known to be essential for eukaryotic cell cycle control. This gene is in close proximity to CDC2L1, a nearly identical gene in the same chromosomal region. The gene loci including this gene, CDC2L1, as well as metalloprotease MMP21/22, consist of two identical, tandemly linked genomic regions, which are thought to be a part of the larger region that has been duplicated. This gene and CDC2L1 were shown to be deleted or altered frequently in neuroblastoma with amplified MYCN genes. The protein kinase encoded by this gene could be cleaved by caspases and was demonstrated to play roles in cell apoptosis. Many transcript variants encoding several different isoforms have been found for this gene, but the full-length nature of only two have been determined so far. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDK11A (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 11A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDK11A include neuroblastoma. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDK12.	Appears to play multiple roles in cell cycle progression, cytokinesis and apoptosis. The p110 isoforms have been suggested to be involved in pre-mRNA splicing, potentially by phosphorylating the splicing protein SFRS7. The p58 isoform may act as a negative regulator of normal cell cycle progression.	same
CDK5R2	The protein encoded by this gene is a neuron-specific activator of CDK5 kinase. It associates with CDK5 to form an active kinase. This protein and neuron-specific CDK5 activator CDK5R1/p39NCK5A both share limited similarity to cyclins, and thus may define a distinct family of cyclin-dependent kinase activating proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDK5R2 (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 5, Regulatory Subunit 2 (P39)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Neuroscience and Reelin Pathway (Cajal-Retzius cells). GO annotations related to this gene include lipid binding and cyclin-dependent protein kinase 5 activator activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDK5R1.	Activator of CDK5/TPKII	same
CDK5RAP2	This gene encodes a regulator of CDK5 (cyclin-dependent kinase 5) activity. The protein encoded by this gene is localized to the centrosome and Golgi complex, interacts with CDK5R1 and pericentrin (PCNT), plays a role in centriole engagement and microtubule nucleation, and has been linked to primary microcephaly and Alzheimer's disease. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]	CDK5RAP2 (CDK5 Regulatory Subunit Associated Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDK5RAP2 include microcephaly 3, primary, autosomal recessive and microcephaly, primary autosomal recessive. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and transcription regulatory region DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is PDE4DIP.	Potential regulator of CDK5 activity via its interaction with CDK5R1. Negative regulator of centriole disengagement (licensing) which maintains centriole engagement and cohesion. Involved in regulation of mitotic spindle orientation (By similarity). Plays a role in the spindle checkpoint activation by acting as a transcriptional regulator of both BUBR1 and MAD2 promoter. Together with MAPRE1, it may promote microtubule polymerization, bundle formation, growth and dynamics at the plus ends.	same
CDK2AP1	The protein encoded by this gene is a cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (CDK2) -associated protein which is thought to negatively regulate CDK2 activity by sequestering monomeric CDK2, and targeting CDK2 for proteolysis. This protein was found to also interact with DNA polymerase alpha/primase and mediate the phosphorylation of the large p180 subunit, which suggests a regulatory role in DNA replication during the S-phase of the cell cycle. This protein also forms a core subunit of the nucleosome remodeling and histone deacetylation (NURD) complex that epigenetically regulates embryonic stem cell differentiation. This gene thus plays a role in both cell-cycle and epigenetic regulation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]	CDK2AP1 (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 2 Associated Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDK2AP1 include oral cancer. An important paralog of this gene is CDK2AP2.	specific inhibitor of the cell-cycle kinase CDK2.	same
CDK5RAP3	This gene encodes a protein that has been reported to function in signaling pathways governing transcriptional regulation and cell cycle progression. It may play a role in tumorigenesis and metastasis. A pseudogene of this gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 20. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, May 2013]	CDK5RAP3 (CDK5 Regulatory Subunit Associated Protein 3) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding.	Potential regulator of CDK5 activity. May be involved in cell proliferation. Regulates CDK5 activity via its interaction with CDK5R1 (By similarity).	same
CDK5	empty	CDK5 (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDK5 include aneurysmal bone cysts and alzheimer disease. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and L1CAM interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and p53 binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDK15.	Proline-directed serine/threonine-protein kinase essential for neuronal cell cycle arrest and differentiation and may be involved in apoptotic cell death in neuronal diseases by triggering abortive cell cycle re-entry. Interacts with D1 and D3-type G1 cyclins. Phosphorylates SRC, NOS3, VIM/vimentin, p35/CDK5R1, MEF2A, SIPA1L1, SH3GLB1, PXN, PAK1, MCAM/MUC18, SEPT5, SYN1, DNM1, AMPH, SYNJ1, CDK16, RAC1, RHOA, CDC42, TONEBP/NFAT5, MAPT/TAU, MAP1B, histone H1, p53/TP53, HDAC1, APEX1, PTK2/FAK1, huntingtin/HTT, ATM, MAP2, NEFH and NEFM. Regulates several neuronal development and physiological processes including neuronal survival, migration and differentiation, axonal and neurite growth, synaptogenesis, oligodendrocyte differentiation, synaptic plasticity and neurotransmission, by phosphorylating key proteins. Activated by interaction with CDK5R1 (p35) and CDK5R2 (p39), especially in post-mitotic neurons, and promotes CDK5R1 (p35) expression in an autostimulation loop. Phosphorylates many downstream substrates such as Rho and Ras family small GTPases (e.g. PAK1, RAC1, RHOA, CDC42) or microtubule-binding proteins (e.g. MAPT/TAU, MAP2, MAP1B), and modulates actin dynamics to regulate neurite growth and/or spine morphogenesis. Phosphorylates also exocytosis associated proteins such as MCAM/MUC18, SEPT5, SYN1, and CDK16/PCTAIRE1 as well as endocytosis associated proteins such as DNM1, AMPH and SYNJ1 at synaptic terminals. In the mature central nervous system (CNS), regulates neurotransmitter movements by phosphorylating substrates associated with neurotransmitter release and synapse plasticity; synaptic vesicle exocytosis, vesicles fusion with the presynaptic membrane, and endocytosis. Promotes cell survival by activating anti-apoptotic proteins BCL2 and STAT3, and negatively regulating of JNK3/MAPK10 activity. Phosphorylation of p53/TP53 in response to genotoxic and oxidative stresses enhances its stabilization by preventing ubiquitin ligase-mediated proteasomal degradation, and induces transactivation of p53/TP53 target genes, thus regulating apoptosis. Phosphorylation of p35/CDK5R1 enhances its stabilization by preventing calpain-mediated proteolysis producing p25/CDK5R1 and avoiding ubiquitin ligase-mediated proteasomal degradation. During aberrant cell-cycle activity and DNA damage, p25/CDK5 activity elicits cell-cycle activity and double-strand DNA breaks that precedes neuronal death by deregulating HDAC1. DNA damage triggered phosphorylation of huntingtin/HTT in nuclei of neurons protects neurons against polyglutamine expansion as well as DNA damage mediated toxicity. Phosphorylation of PXN reduces its interaction with PTK2/FAK1 in matrix-cell focal adhesions (MCFA) during oligodendrocytes (OLs) differentiation. Negative regulator of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway. Activator of the GAIT (IFN-gamma-activated inhibitor of translation) pathway, which suppresses expression of a post-transcriptional regulon of proinflammatory genes in myeloid cells; phosphorylates the linker domain of glutamyl-prolyl tRNA synthetase (EPRS) in a IFN-gamma-dependent manner, the initial event in assembly of the GAIT complex. Phosphorylation of SH3GLB1 is required for autophagy induction in starved neurons. Phosphorylation of TONEBP/NFAT5 in response to osmotic stress mediates its rapid nuclear localization. MEF2 is inactivated by phosphorylation in nucleus in response to neurotoxin, thus leading to neuronal apoptosis. APEX1 AP-endodeoxyribonuclease is repressed by phosphorylation, resulting in accumulation of DNA damage and contributing to neuronal death. NOS3 phosphorylation down regulates NOS3-derived nitrite (NO) levels. SRC phosphorylation mediates its ubiquitin-dependent degradation and thus leads to cytoskeletal reorganization. May regulate endothelial cell migration and angiogenesis via the modulation of lamellipodia formation. Involved in dendritic spine morphogenesis by mediating the EFNA1-EPHA4 signaling. The complex p35/CDK5 participates in the regulation of the circadian clock by modulating the function of CLOCK protein: phosphorylates CLOCK at Thr-451 and Thr-461 and regulates the transcriptional activity of the CLOCK-ARNTL/BMAL1 heterodimer in association with altered stability and subcellular distribution.	same
CDK6	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the cyclin-dependent protein kinase (CDK) family. CDK family members are highly similar to the gene products of Saccharomyces cerevisiae cdc28, and Schizosaccharomyces pombe cdc2, and are known to be important regulators of cell cycle progression. This kinase is a catalytic subunit of the protein kinase complex that is important for cell cycle G1 phase progression and G1/S transition. The activity of this kinase first appears in mid-G1 phase, which is controlled by the regulatory subunits including D-type cyclins and members of INK4 family of CDK inhibitors. This kinase, as well as CDK4, has been shown to phosphorylate, and thus regulate the activity of, tumor suppressor protein Rb. Expression of this gene is up-regulated in some types of cancer. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]	CDK6 (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDK6 include microcephaly 12, primary, autosomal recessive and microcephaly, primary autosomal recessive. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Glioma. GO annotations related to this gene include cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity and cyclin binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDK1.	Serine/threonine-protein kinase involved in the control of the cell cycle and differentiation; promotes G1/S transition. Phosphorylates pRB/RB1 and NPM1. Interacts with D-type G1 cyclins during interphase at G1 to form a pRB/RB1 kinase and controls the entrance into the cell cycle. Involved in initiation and maintenance of cell cycle exit during cell differentiation; prevents cell proliferation and regulates negatively cell differentiation, but is required for the proliferation of specific cell types (e.g. erythroid and hematopoietic cells). Essential for cell proliferation within the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus and the subventricular zone of the lateral ventricles. Required during thymocyte development. Promotes the production of newborn neurons, probably by modulating G1 length. Promotes, at least in astrocytes, changes in patterns of gene expression, changes in the actin cytoskeleton including loss of stress fibers, and enhanced motility during cell differentiation. Prevents myeloid differentiation by interfering with RUNX1 and reducing its transcription transactivation activity, but promotes proliferation of normal myeloid progenitors. Delays senescence. Promotes the proliferation of beta-cells in pancreatic islets of Langerhans. May play a role in the centrosome organization during the cell cycle phases (PubMed:23918663).	same
CDK19	This gene encodes a protein that is one of the components of the Mediator co-activator complex. The Mediator complex is a multi-protein complex required for transcriptional activation by DNA binding transcription factors of genes transcribed by RNA polymerase II. The protein encoded by this gene is similar to cyclin-dependent kinase 8 which can also be a component of the Mediator complex. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]	CDK19 (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 19) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are L1CAM interactions and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDK8.	empty	same
CDK7	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the cyclin-dependent protein kinase (CDK) family. CDK family members are highly similar to the gene products of Saccharomyces cerevisiae cdc28, and Schizosaccharomyces pombe cdc2, and are known to be important regulators of cell cycle progression. This protein forms a trimeric complex with cyclin H and MAT1, which functions as a Cdk-activating kinase (CAK). It is an essential component of the transcription factor TFIIH, that is involved in transcription initiation and DNA repair. This protein is thought to serve as a direct link between the regulation of transcription and the cell cycle. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDK7 (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDK7 include trichothiodystrophy. Among its related pathways are Disease and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include transcription coactivator activity and protein C-terminus binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDKL3.	Serine/threonine kinase involved in cell cycle control and in RNA polymerase II-mediated RNA transcription. Cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) are activated by the binding to a cyclin and mediate the progression through the cell cycle. Each different complex controls a specific transition between 2 subsequent phases in the cell cycle. Required for both activation and complex formation of CDK1/cyclin-B during G2-M transition, and for activation of CDK2/cyclins during G1-S transition (but not complex formation). CDK7 is the catalytic subunit of the CDK-activating kinase (CAK) complex. Phosphorylates SPT5/SUPT5H, SF1/NR5A1, POLR2A, p53/TP53, CDK1, CDK2, CDK4, CDK6 and CDK11B/CDK11. CAK activates the cyclin-associated kinases CDK1, CDK2, CDK4 and CDK6 by threonine phosphorylation, thus regulating cell cycle progression. CAK complexed to the core-TFIIH basal transcription factor activates RNA polymerase II by serine phosphorylation of the repetitive C-terminal domain (CTD) of its large subunit (POLR2A), allowing its escape from the promoter and elongation of the transcripts. Phosphorylation of POLR2A in complex with DNA promotes transcription initiation by triggering dissociation from DNA. Its expression and activity are constant throughout the cell cycle. Upon DNA damage, triggers p53/TP53 activation by phosphorylation, but is inactivated in turn by p53/TP53; this feedback loop may lead to an arrest of the cell cycle and of the transcription, helping in cell recovery, or to apoptosis. Required for DNA-bound peptides-mediated transcription and cellular growth inhibition.	same
CDKAL1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the methylthiotransferase family. The function of this gene is not known. Genome-wide association studies have linked single nucleotide polymorphisms in an intron of this gene with susceptibilty to type 2 diabetes. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	CDKAL1 (CDK5 Regulatory Subunit Associated Protein 1-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDKAL1 include diabetes mellitus, noninsulin-dependent. GO annotations related to this gene include 4 iron, 4 sulfur cluster binding and transferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDK5RAP1.	Catalyzes the methylthiolation of N6-threonylcarbamoyladenosine (t(6)A), leading to the formation of 2-methylthio-N6-threonylcarbamoyladenosine (ms(2)t(6)A) at position 37 in tRNAs that read codons beginning with adenine.	same
CDK8	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the cyclin-dependent protein kinase (CDK) family. CDK family members are highly similar to the gene products of Saccharomyces cerevisiae cdc28, and Schizosaccharomyces pombe cdc2, and are known to be important regulators of cell cycle progression. This kinase and its regulatory subunit cyclin C are components of the RNA polymerase II holoenzyme complex, which phosphorylates the carboxy-terminal domain (CTD) of the largest subunit of RNA polymerase II. This kinase has also been shown to regulate transcription by targeting the CDK7/cyclin H subunits of the general transcription initiation factor IIH (TFIIH), thus providing a link between the 'Mediator-like' protein complexes and the basal transcription machinery. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDK8 (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 8) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase activity and RNA polymerase II carboxy-terminal domain kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDK19.	Component of the Mediator complex, a coactivator involved in regulated gene transcription of nearly all RNA polymerase II-dependent genes. Mediator functions as a bridge to convey information from gene-specific regulatory proteins to the basal RNA polymerase II transcription machinery. Mediator is recruited to promoters by direct interactions with regulatory proteins and serves as a scaffold for the assembly of a functional preinitiation complex with RNA polymerase II and the general transcription factors. Phosphorylates the CTD (C-terminal domain) of the large subunit of RNA polymerase II (RNAp II), which may inhibit the formation of a transcription initiation complex. Phosphorylates CCNH leading to down-regulation of the TFIIH complex and transcriptional repression. Recruited through interaction with MAML1 to hyperphosphorylate the intracellular domain of NOTCH, leading to its degradation.	same
CDK2AP2	This gene encodes a protein that interacts with cyclin-dependent kinase 2 associated protein 1. Pseudogenes associated with this gene are located on chromosomes 7 and 9. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]	CDK2AP2 (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 2 Associated Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDK2AP2 include hormone producing pituitary cancer and oral cancer. An important paralog of this gene is CDK2AP1.	empty	same
CDKL1	This gene product is a member of a large family of CDC2-related serine/threonine protein kinases. It accumulates primarily in the nucleus. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2013]	CDKL1 (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase-Like 1 (CDC2-Related Kinase)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDKL3.	empty	same
CDKL5	This gene is a member of Ser/Thr protein kinase family and encodes a phosphorylated protein with protein kinase activity. Mutations in this gene have been associated with X-linked infantile spasm syndrome (ISSX), also known as X-linked West syndrome, and Rett syndrome (RTT). Alternate transcriptional splice variants have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDKL5 (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase-Like 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDKL5 include epileptic encephalopathy, early infantile, 2 and cdkl5-related angelman-like syndrome. Among its related pathways are BDNF signaling pathway and Sweet Taste Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDKL3.	Mediates phosphorylation of MECP2.	same
CDKL2	This gene product is a member of a large family of CDC2-related serine/threonine protein kinases. It accumulates primarily in the cytoplasm, with lower levels in the nucleus. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDKL2 (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase-Like 2 (CDC2-Related Kinase)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase activity and cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDKL3.	empty	same
CDKL4	empty	CDKL4 (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase-Like 4) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDKL3.	empty	same
CDKN1A	This gene encodes a potent cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor. The encoded protein binds to and inhibits the activity of cyclin-CDK2 or -CDK4 complexes, and thus functions as a regulator of cell cycle progression at G1. The expression of this gene is tightly controlled by the tumor suppressor protein p53, through which this protein mediates the p53-dependent cell cycle G1 phase arrest in response to a variety of stress stimuli. This protein can interact with proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), a DNA polymerase accessory factor, and plays a regulatory role in S phase DNA replication and DNA damage repair. This protein was reported to be specifically cleaved by CASP3-like caspases, which thus leads to a dramatic activation of CDK2, and may be instrumental in the execution of apoptosis following caspase activation. Multiple alternatively spliced variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]	CDKN1A (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor 1A (P21, Cip1)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDKN1A include thoracic cancer and bladder transitional cell carcinoma. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and PI-3K cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include protein complex binding and cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDKN1B.	May be the important intermediate by which p53/TP53 mediates its role as an inhibitor of cellular proliferation in response to DNA damage. Binds to and inhibits cyclin-dependent kinase activity, preventing phosphorylation of critical cyclin-dependent kinase substrates and blocking cell cycle progression. Functions in the nuclear localization and assembly of cyclin D-CDK4 complex and promotes its kinase activity towards RB1. At higher stoichiometric ratios, inhibits the kinase activity of the cyclin D-CDK4 complex.	same
CDK9	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the cyclin-dependent protein kinase (CDK) family. CDK family members are highly similar to the gene products of S. cerevisiae cdc28, and S. pombe cdc2, and known as important cell cycle regulators. This kinase was found to be a component of the multiprotein complex TAK/P-TEFb, which is an elongation factor for RNA polymerase II-directed transcription and functions by phosphorylating the C-terminal domain of the largest subunit of RNA polymerase II. This protein forms a complex with and is regulated by its regulatory subunit cyclin T or cyclin K. HIV-1 Tat protein was found to interact with this protein and cyclin T, which suggested a possible involvement of this protein in AIDS. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDK9 (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 9) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDK9 include hiv-1. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include chromatin binding and transcription regulatory region DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDK12.	Protein kinase involved in the regulation of transcription. Member of the cyclin-dependent kinase pair (CDK9/cyclin-T) complex, also called positive transcription elongation factor b (P-TEFb), which facilitates the transition from abortive to productive elongation by phosphorylating the CTD (C-terminal domain) of the large subunit of RNA polymerase II (RNAP II) POLR2A, SUPT5H and RDBP. This complex is inactive when in the 7SK snRNP complex form. Phosphorylates EP300, MYOD1, RPB1/POLR2A and AR, and the negative elongation factors DSIF and NELF. Regulates cytokine inducible transcription networks by facilitating promoter recognition of target transcription factors (e.g. TNF-inducible RELA/p65 activation and IL-6-inducible STAT3 signaling). Promotes RNA synthesis in genetic programs for cell growth, differentiation and viral pathogenesis. P-TEFb is also involved in cotranscriptional histone modification, mRNA processing and mRNA export. Modulates a complex network of chromatin modifications including histone H2B monoubiquitination (H2Bub1), H3 lysine 4 trimethylation (H3K4me3) and H3K36me3; integrates phosphorylation during transcription with chromatin modifications to control co-transcriptional histone mRNA processing. The CDK9/cyclin-K complex has also a kinase activity towards CTD of RNAP II and can substitute for CDK9/cyclin-T P-TEFb in vitro. Replication stress response protein; the CDK9/cyclin-K complex is required for genome integrity maintenance, by promoting cell cycle recovery from replication arrest and limiting single-stranded DNA amount in response to replication stress, thus reducing the breakdown of stalled replication forks and avoiding DNA damage. In addition, probable function in DNA repair of isoform 2 via interaction with KU70/XRCC6. Promotes cardiac myocyte enlargement. RPB1/POLR2A phosphorylation on Ser-2 in CTD activates transcription. AR phosphorylation modulates AR transcription factor promoter selectivity and cell growth. DSIF and NELF phosphorylation promotes transcription by inhibiting their negative effect. The phosphorylation of MYOD1 enhances its transcriptional activity and thus promotes muscle differentiation.	same
CDK5R1	The protein encoded by this gene (p35) is a neuron-specific activator of cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (CDK5); the activation of CDK5 is required for proper development of the central nervous system. The p35 form of this protein is proteolytically cleaved by calpain, generating a p25 form. The cleavage of p35 into p25 results in relocalization of the protein from the cell periphery to nuclear and perinuclear regions. P25 deregulates CDK5 activity by prolonging its activation and changing its cellular location. The p25 form accumulates in the brain neurons of patients with Alzheimer's disease. This accumulation correlates with an increase in CDK5 kinase activity, and may lead to aberrantly phosphorylated forms of the microtubule-associated protein tau, which contributes to Alzheimer's disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDK5R1 (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 5, Regulatory Subunit 1 (P35)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDK5R1 include tauopathy. Among its related pathways are L1CAM interactions and Apoptotic Pathways in Synovial Fibroblasts. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and protein kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDK5R2.	p35 is a neuron specific activator of CDK5. The complex p35/CDK5 is required for neurite outgrowth and cortical lamination. Involved in dendritic spine morphogenesis by mediating the EFNA1-EPHA4 signaling. Activator of TPKII. The complex p35/CDK5 participates in the regulation of the circadian clock by modulating the function of CLOCK protein: phosphorylates CLOCK at Thr-451 and Thr-461 and regulates the transcriptional activity of the CLOCK-ARNTL/BMAL1 heterodimer in association with altered stability and subcellular distribution.	same
CDKN2AIPNL	empty	CDKN2AIPNL (CDKN2A Interacting Protein N-Terminal Like) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CDKN2AIP.	empty	same
CDKN1C	This gene is imprinted, with preferential expression of the maternal allele. The encoded protein is a tight-binding, strong inhibitor of several G1 cyclin/Cdk complexes and a negative regulator of cell proliferation. Mutations in this gene are implicated in sporadic cancers and Beckwith-Wiedemann syndorome, suggesting that this gene is a tumor suppressor candidate. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]	CDKN1C (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor 1C (P57, Kip2)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDKN1C include image syndrome and beckwith-wiedemann syndrome due to cdkn1c mutation. Among its related pathways are Endochondral Ossification and Cell Cycle / Checkpoint Control. GO annotations related to this gene include cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDKN1A.	Potent tight-binding inhibitor of several G1 cyclin/CDK complexes (cyclin E-CDK2, cyclin D2-CDK4, and cyclin A-CDK2) and, to lesser extent, of the mitotic cyclin B-CDC2. Negative regulator of cell proliferation. May play a role in maintenance of the non-proliferative state throughout life	same
CDKN2BAS	This gene is located within the CDKN2B-CDKN2A gene cluster at chromosome 9p21. The gene product is a functional RNA molecule that interacts with polycomb repressive complex-1 (PRC1) and -2 (PRC2), leading to epigenetic silencing of other genes in this cluster. This region is a significant genetic susceptibility locus for cardiovascular disease, and has also been linked to a number of other pathologies, including several cancers, intracranial aneurysm, type-2 diabetes, periodontitis, Alzheimer's disease, endometriosis, frailty in the elderly, and glaucoma. Multiple alternatively processed transcript variants have been detected, some of which may take the form of circular RNA molecules (PMID:21151960). [provided by RefSeq, May 2014]	CDKN2B-AS1 (CDKN2B Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class. Diseases associated with CDKN2B-AS1 include endometriosis and intracranial aneurysm.	empty	diff
CDKN1B	This gene encodes a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, which shares a limited similarity with CDK inhibitor CDKN1A/p21. The encoded protein binds to and prevents the activation of cyclin E-CDK2 or cyclin D-CDK4 complexes, and thus controls the cell cycle progression at G1. The degradation of this protein, which is triggered by its CDK dependent phosphorylation and subsequent ubiquitination by SCF complexes, is required for the cellular transition from quiescence to the proliferative state. Mutations in this gene are associated with multiple endocrine neoplasia type IV (MEN4). [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2014]	CDKN1B (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor 1B (P27, Kip1)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDKN1B include multiple endocrine neoplasia, type iv and multiple endocrine neoplasia 1. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and PI-3K cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include protein phosphatase binding and cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDKN1A.	Important regulator of cell cycle progression. Involved in G1 arrest. Potent inhibitor of cyclin E- and cyclin A-CDK2 complexes. Forms a complex with cyclin type D-CDK4 complexes and is involved in the assembly, stability, and modulation of CCND1-CDK4 complex activation. Acts either as an inhibitor or an activator of cyclin type D-CDK4 complexes depending on its phosphorylation state and/or stoichometry.	same
CDON	This gene encodes a cell surface receptor that is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily. The encoded protein contains three fibronectin type III domains and five immunoglobulin-like C2-type domains. This protein is a member of a cell-surface receptor complex that mediates cell-cell interactions between muscle precursor cells and positively regulates myogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	CDON (Cell Adhesion Associated, Oncogene Regulated) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDON include holoprosencephaly 11 and cdon-related holoprosencephaly. Among its related pathways are L1CAM interactions and Signaling events mediated by the Hedgehog family. An important paralog of this gene is BOC.	Component of a cell-surface receptor complex that mediates cell-cell interactions between muscle precursor cells. Promotes differentiation of myogenic cells (By similarity).	same
CDO1	empty	CDO1 (Cysteine Dioxygenase Type 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDO1 include hepatoblastoma. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include ferrous iron binding and cysteine dioxygenase activity.	Initiates several important metabolic pathways related to pyruvate and several sulfurate compounds including sulfate, hypotaurine and taurine. Critical regulator of cellular cysteine concentrations. Has an important role in maintaining the hepatic concentation of intracellular free cysteine within a proper narrow range	same
CDNF	empty	CDNF (Cerebral Dopamine Neurotrophic Factor) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include growth factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is MANF.	Trophic factor for dopamine neurons. Prevents the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced degeneration of dopaminergic neurons. When administered after 6-OHDA-lesioning, restores the dopaminergic function and prevents the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in substantia nigra (By similarity).	same
CDR2	empty	CDR2 (Cerebellar Degeneration-Related Protein 2, 62kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDR2 include gait apraxia and paraneoplastic neurologic disorders. An important paralog of this gene is CDR2L.	empty	same
CDKL3	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of cyclin-dependent protein kinase (CDK) family. CDK family members are highly similar to the gene products of Saccharomyces cerevisiae cdc28, and Schizosaccharomyces pombe cdc2, and are known to be important regulators of cell cycle progression. This gene was identified as a gene absent in leukemic patients with chromosome 5q deletion. This loss may be an important determinant of dysmyelopoiesis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDKL3 (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase-Like 3) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase activity and cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDKL2.	empty	same
CDRT15	empty	CDRT15 (CMT1A Duplicated Region Transcript 15) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CDRT15L2.	empty	same
CDRT15P	empty	CDRT15P1 (CMT1A Duplicated Region Transcript 15 Pseudogene 1) is a Pseudogene.	empty	diff
CDKN2AIP	empty	CDKN2AIP (CDKN2A Interacting Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and p53 binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDKN2AIPNL.	Regulates DNA damage response in a dose-dependent manner through a number of signaling pathways involved in cell proliferation, apoptosis and senescence.	same
CDKN2A	This gene generates several transcript variants which differ in their first exons. At least three alternatively spliced variants encoding distinct proteins have been reported, two of which encode structurally related isoforms known to function as inhibitors of CDK4 kinase. The remaining transcript includes an alternate first exon located 20 Kb upstream of the remainder of the gene; this transcript contains an alternate open reading frame (ARF) that specifies a protein which is structurally unrelated to the products of the other variants. This ARF product functions as a stabilizer of the tumor suppressor protein p53 as it can interact with, and sequester, the E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase MDM2, a protein responsible for the degradation of p53. In spite of the structural and functional differences, the CDK inhibitor isoforms and the ARF product encoded by this gene, through the regulatory roles of CDK4 and p53 in cell cycle G1 progression, share a common functionality in cell cycle G1 control. This gene is frequently mutated or deleted in a wide variety of tumors, and is known to be an important tumor suppressor gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2012]	CDKN2A (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor 2A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDKN2A include melanoma, cutaneous malignant, 2 and melanoma and neural system tumor syndrome. Among its related pathways are Glioma and Pathways in cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and p53 binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDKN2B.	Capable of inducing cell cycle arrest in G1 and G2 phases. Acts as a tumor suppressor. Binds to MDM2 and blocks its nucleocytoplasmic shuttling by sequestering it in the nucleolus. This inhibits the oncogenic action of MDM2 by blocking MDM2-induced degradation of p53 and enhancing p53-dependent transactivation and apoptosis. Also induces G2 arrest and apoptosis in a p53-independent manner by preventing the activation of cyclin B1/CDC2 complexes. Binds to BCL6 and down-regulates BCL6-induced transcriptional repression. Binds to E2F1 and MYC and blocks their transcriptional activator activity but has no effect on MYC transcriptional repression. Binds to TOP1/TOPOI and stimulates its activity. This complex binds to rRNA gene promoters and may play a role in rRNA transcription and/or maturation. Interacts with NPM1/B23 and promotes its polyubiquitination and degradation, thus inhibiting rRNA processing. Interacts with COMMD1 and promotes its Lys63-linked polyubiquitination. Interacts with UBE2I/UBC9 and enhances sumoylation of a number of its binding partners including MDM2 and E2F1. Binds to HUWE1 and represses its ubiquitin ligase activity. May play a role in controlling cell proliferation and apoptosis during mammary gland development. Isoform smARF may be involved in regulation of autophagy and caspase-independent cell death; the short-lived mitochondrial isoform is stabilized by C1QBP.	same
CAPN8	empty	CAPN8 (Calpain 8) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Apoptosis Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and calcium-dependent cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CAPN9.	Calcium-regulated non-lysosomal thiol-protease. Involved in membrane trafficking in the gastric surface mucus cells (pit cells) and may involve the membrane trafficking of mucus cells via interactions with coat protein. Proteolytically cleaves the beta-subunit of coatomer complex (By similarity).	same
CDRT1	Members of the F-box protein family, such as FBXW10, are characterized by an approximately 40-amino acid F-box motif. SCF complexes, formed by SKP1 (MIM 601434), cullin (see CUL1; MIM 603034), and F-box proteins, act as protein-ubiquitin ligases. F-box proteins interact with SKP1 through the F box, and they interact with ubiquitination targets through other protein interaction domains (Jin et al., 2004 [PubMed 15520277]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CDRT1 (CMT1A Duplicated Region Transcript 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is FBXW10.	empty	same
CDS1	Breakdown products of phosphoinositides are ubiquitous second messengers that function downstream of many G protein-coupled receptors and tyrosine kinases regulating cell growth, calcium metabolism, and protein kinase C activity. This gene encodes an enzyme which regulates the amount of phosphatidylinositol available for signaling by catalyzing the conversion of phosphatidic acid to CDP-diacylglycerol. This enzyme is an integral membrane protein localized to two subcellular domains, the matrix side of the inner mitochondrial membrane where it is thought to be involved in the synthesis of phosphatidylglycerol and cardiolipin and the cytoplasmic side of the endoplasmic reticulum where it functions in phosphatidylinositol biosynthesis. Two genes encoding this enzyme have been identified in humans, one mapping to human chromosome 4q21 and a second to 20p13. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDS1 (CDP-Diacylglycerol Synthase (Phosphatidate Cytidylyltransferase) 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDS1 include osteosarcoma, somatic and li-fraumeni syndrome. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include diacylglycerol cholinephosphotransferase activity and phosphatidate cytidylyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDS2.	Provides CDP-diacylglycerol, an important precursor for the synthesis of phosphatidylinositol (PtdIns), phosphatidylglycerol, and cardiolipin. Overexpression may amplify cellular signaling responses from cytokines. May also play an important role in the signal transduction mechanism of retina and neural cells	same
CDRT4	empty	CDRT4 (CMT1A Duplicated Region Transcript 4) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CDKN2D	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the INK4 family of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors. This protein has been shown to form a stable complex with CDK4 or CDK6, and prevent the activation of the CDK kinases, thus function as a cell growth regulator that controls cell cycle G1 progression. The abundance of the transcript of this gene was found to oscillate in a cell-cycle dependent manner with the lowest expression at mid G1 and a maximal expression during S phase. The negative regulation of the cell cycle involved in this protein was shown to participate in repressing neuronal proliferation, as well as spermatogenesis. Two alternatively spliced variants of this gene, which encode an identical protein, have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDKN2D (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor 2D (P19, Inhibits CDK4)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDKN2D include malignant melanoma, somatic and testicular germ cell tumor. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and GPCR Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDKN2B.	Interacts strongly with CDK4 and CDK6 and inhibits them.	same
CDKN3	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the dual specificity protein phosphatase family. It was identified as a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, and has been shown to interact with, and dephosphorylate CDK2 kinase, thus prevent the activation of CDK2 kinase. This gene was reported to be deleted, mutated, or overexpressed in several kinds of cancers. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]	CDKN3 (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDKN3 include bubonic plague and hepatocellular carcinoma. GO annotations related to this gene include protein tyrosine phosphatase activity and protein tyrosine/serine/threonine phosphatase activity.	May play a role in cell cycle regulation. Dual specificity phosphatase active toward substrates containing either phosphotyrosine or phosphoserine residues. Dephosphorylates CDK2 at Thr-160 in a cyclin-dependent manner.	same
CDSN	This gene encodes a protein found in corneodesmosomes, which localize to human epidermis and other cornified squamous epithelia. The encoded protein undergoes a series of cleavages during corneocyte maturation. This gene is highly polymorphic in human populations, and variation has been associated with skin diseases such as psoriasis, hypotrichosis and peeling skin syndrome. The gene is located in the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I region on chromosome 6. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2014]	CDSN (Corneodesmosin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDSN include hypotrichosis 2 and peeling skin syndrome 1. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity.	Important for the epidermal barrier integrity.	same
CDKN2B	This gene lies adjacent to the tumor suppressor gene CDKN2A in a region that is frequently mutated and deleted in a wide variety of tumors. This gene encodes a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, which forms a complex with CDK4 or CDK6, and prevents the activation of the CDK kinases, thus the encoded protein functions as a cell growth regulator that controls cell cycle G1 progression. The expression of this gene was found to be dramatically induced by TGF beta, which suggested its role in the TGF beta induced growth inhibition. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene, which encode distinct proteins, have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDKN2B (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor 2B (P15, Inhibits CDK4)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDKN2B include thyroid lymphoma and skin melanoma. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDKN2A.	Interacts strongly with CDK4 and CDK6. Potent inhibitor. Potential effector of TGF-beta induced cell cycle arrest	same
CDKN2C	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the INK4 family of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors. This protein has been shown to interact with CDK4 or CDK6, and prevent the activation of the CDK kinases, thus function as a cell growth regulator that controls cell cycle G1 progression. Ectopic expression of this gene was shown to suppress the growth of human cells in a manner that appears to correlate with the presence of a wild-type RB1 function. Studies in the knockout mice suggested the roles of this gene in regulating spermatogenesis, as well as in suppressing tumorigenesis. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene, which encode an identical protein, have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDKN2C (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor 2C (P18, Inhibits CDK4)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDKN2C include multiple endocrine neoplasia 1 and anaplastic oligodendroglioma. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and GPCR Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDKN2B.	Interacts strongly with CDK6, weakly with CDK4. Inhibits cell growth and proliferation with a correlated dependence on endogenous retinoblastoma protein RB	same
CDV3	empty	CDV3 (CDV3 Homolog (Mouse)) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CDT1	The protein encoded by this gene is involved in the formation of the pre-replication complex that is necessary for DNA replication. The encoded protein can bind geminin, which prevents replication and may function to prevent this protein from initiating replication at inappropriate origins. Phosphorylation of this protein by cyclin A-dependent kinases results in degradation of the protein. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]	CDT1 (Chromatin Licensing And DNA Replication Factor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDT1 include meier-gorlin syndrome 4 and meier-gorlin syndrome 1. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic.	Cooperates with CDC6 to promote the loading of the mini-chromosome maintenance complex onto chromatin to form the pre-replication complex necessary to initiate DNA replication. Binds DNA in a sequence-, strand-, and conformation-independent manner. Potential oncogene.	same
CDR2L	empty	CDR2L (Cerebellar Degeneration-Related Protein 2-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CDR2.	empty	same
CDY2B	This intronless gene encodes a protein containing a chromodomain and a histone acetyltransferase catalytic domain. Chromodomain proteins are components of heterochromatin-like complexes and can act as gene repressors. This protein is localized to the nucleus of late spermatids where histone hyperacetylation takes place. Histone hyperacetylation is thought to facilitate the transition in which protamines replace histones as the major DNA-packaging protein. Two nearly identical copies of this gene are found in a palindromic region on chromosome Y; this record represents the centromeric copy. Chromosome Y also contains a pair of closely related genes in another more telomeric palindrome as well as several related pseudogenes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDY2B (Chromodomain Protein, Y-Linked, 2B) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include histone acetyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDY1B.	May have histone acetyltransferase activity.	same
CDX2	This gene is a member of the caudal-related homeobox transcription factor gene family. The encoded protein is a major regulator of intestine-specific genes involved in cell growth an differentiation. This protein also plays a role in early embryonic development of the intestinal tract. Aberrant expression of this gene is associated with intestinal inflammation and tumorigenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]	CDX2 (Caudal Type Homeobox 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDX2 include chronic cholangitis and adenocarcinoma in situ. Among its related pathways are Oct4 in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency and Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and transcription regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDX4.	Involved in the transcriptional regulation of multiple genes expressed in the intestinal epithelium. Important in broad range of functions from early differentiation to maintenance of the intestinal epithelial lining of both the small and large intestine	same
CDX4	This gene encodes a member of a small subfamily of homeobox containing transcription factors. The encoded protein may regulate homeobox gene expression during anteroposterior patterning and hematopoiesis. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012]	CDX4 (Caudal Type Homeobox 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDX4 include adult acute lymphocytic leukemia. Among its related pathways are Regulation of Wnt-mediated beta catenin signaling and target gene transcription. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and transcription regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDX1.	empty	same
CDY1	This gene encodes a protein containing a chromodomain and a histone acetyltransferase catalytic domain. Chromodomain proteins are components of heterochromatin-like complexes and can act as gene repressors. This protein is localized to the nucleus of late spermatids where histone hyperacetylation takes place. Histone hyperacetylation is thought to facilitate the transition in which protamines replace histones as the major DNA-packaging protein. The human chromosome Y has two identical copies of this gene within a palindromic region; this record represents the more telomeric copy. Chromosome Y also contains a pair of closely related genes in another more telomeric palindrome as well as several related pseudogenes. Two protein isoforms are encoded by transcript variants of this gene. Additional transcript variants have been described, but their full-length nature has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDY1 (Chromodomain Protein, Y-Linked, 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDY1 include y chromosome infertility. An important paralog of this gene is CDY1B.	Has histone acetyltransferase activity, with a preference for histone H4.	same
CDS2	Breakdown products of phosphoinositides are ubiquitous second messengers that function downstream of many G protein-coupled receptors and tyrosine kinases regulating cell growth, calcium metabolism, and protein kinase C activity. This gene encodes an enzyme which regulates the amount of phosphatidylinositol available for signaling by catalyzing the conversion of phosphatidic acid to CDP-diacylglycerol. This enzyme is an integral membrane protein localized to two subcellular domains, the matrix side of the inner mitochondrial membrane where it is thought to be involved in the synthesis of phosphatidylglycerol and cardiolipin and the cytoplasmic side of the endoplasmic reticulum where it functions in phosphatidylinositol biosynthesis. Two genes encoding this enzyme have been identified in humans, one mapping to human chromosome 4q21 and a second to 20p13. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDS2 (CDP-Diacylglycerol Synthase (Phosphatidate Cytidylyltransferase) 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include phosphatidate cytidylyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CDS1.	Provides CDP-diacylglycerol, an important precursor for the synthesis of phosphatidylinositol, phosphatidylglycerol, and cardiolipin	same
CDX1	This gene is a member of the caudal-related homeobox transcription factor gene family. The encoded DNA-binding protein regulates intestine-specific gene expression and enterocyte differentiation. It has been shown to induce expression of the intestinal alkaline phosphatase gene, and inhibit beta-catenin/T-cell factor transcriptional activity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDX1 (Caudal Type Homeobox 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDX1 include colon adenocarcinoma and bile reflux. Among its related pathways are Regulation of Wnt-mediated beta catenin signaling and target gene transcription and Cell adhesion Integrin-mediated cell adhesion and migration. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA polymerase II distal enhancer sequence-specific DNA binding and RNA polymerase II distal enhancer sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity involved in positive regulation of transcription. An important paralog of this gene is CDX4.	Could play a role in the terminal differentiation of the intestine	same
CEACAM16	The protein encoded by this gene is a secreted glycoprotein that in mouse interacts with tectorial membrane proteins in the inner ear. The encoded adhesion protein is found in cochlear outer hair cells and appears to be important for proper hearing over an extended frequency range. Defects in this gene likely are a cause of non-syndromic autosomal dominant hearing loss. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]	CEACAM16 (Carcinoembryonic Antigen-Related Cell Adhesion Molecule 16) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CEACAM16 include deafness, autosomal dominant 4b and autosomal dominant non-syndromic sensorineural deafness type dfna. An important paralog of this gene is CEACAM8.	Required for proper hearing, it may play a role in maintaining the integrity of the tectorial membrane.	same
CDR1	Autoantibodies directed against the protein encoded by this intronless gene have been found in some patients with paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration. The encoded protein contains several hexapeptide repeats. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]	CDR1 (Cerebellar Degeneration-Related Protein 1, 34kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDR1 include cerebellar degeneration and paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration.	empty	same
CDY1B	This gene encodes a protein containing a chromodomain and a histone acetyltransferase catalytic domain. Chromodomain proteins are components of heterochromatin-like complexes and can act as gene repressors. This protein is localized to the nucleus of late spermatids where histone hyperacetylation takes place. Histone hyperacetylation is thought to facilitate the transition in which protamines replace histones as the major DNA-packaging protein. The human chromosome Y has two identical copies of this gene within a palindromic region; this record represents the more centromeric copy. Chromosome Y also contains a pair of closely related genes in another more telomeric palindrome as well as several related pseudogenes. Two protein isoforms are encoded by transcript variants of this gene. Additional transcript variants have been described, but their full-length nature has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDY1B (Chromodomain Protein, Y-Linked, 1B) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include histone acetyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ECH1.	Has histone acetyltransferase activity, with a preference for histone H4.	same
CDYL	Chromodomain Y is a primate-specific Y-chromosomal gene family expressed exclusively in the testis and implicated in infertility. Although the Y-linked genes are testis-specific, this autosomal gene is ubiquitously expressed. The Y-linked genes arose by retrotransposition of an mRNA from this gene, followed by amplification of the retroposed gene. Proteins encoded by this gene superfamily possess a chromodomain, a motif implicated in chromatin binding and gene suppression, and a catalytic domain believed to be involved in histone acetylation. Multiple proteins are encoded by transcript variants of this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CDYL (Chromodomain Protein, Y-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDYL include gingival recession. Among its related pathways are Transcriptional Regulatory Network in Embryonic Stem Cell. GO annotations related to this gene include histone acetyltransferase activity and methylated histone binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDY1B.	Acts as a RE1-silencing transcription factor (REST) corepressor that facilitates histone-lysine N-methyltransferase EHMT2 recruitment and H3K9 dimethylation at REST target genes for repression. Required for chromatin targeting and maximal enzymatic activity of polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2); acts as a positive regulator of PRC2 activity by bridging the pre-existing histone H3K27me3 and newly recruited PRC2 on neighboring nucleosomes. Has histone acetyltransferase activity, with a preference for histone H4.	same
CEACAM19	empty	CEACAM19 (Carcinoembryonic Antigen-Related Cell Adhesion Molecule 19) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CEACAM20	empty	CEACAM20 (Carcinoembryonic Antigen-Related Cell Adhesion Molecule 20) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CEACAM7	empty	CEACAM7 (Carcinoembryonic Antigen-Related Cell Adhesion Molecule 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CEACAM7 include goblet cell carcinoid and colorectal adenocarcinoma. An important paralog of this gene is CEACAM8.	empty	same
CEACAM4	empty	CEACAM4 (Carcinoembryonic Antigen-Related Cell Adhesion Molecule 4) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CEACAM8.	Granulocyte orphan receptor that acts as an trigger efficient phagocytosis of attached particles.	same
CDYL2	empty	CDYL2 (Chromodomain Protein, Y-Like 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CDYL2 include prostate cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include methylated histone binding. An important paralog of this gene is CDY1B.	empty	same
CEACAM6	This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) family whose members are glycosyl phosphatidyl inositol (GPI) anchored cell surface glycoproteins. Members of this family play a role in cell adhesion and are widely used as tumor markers in serum immunoassay determinations of carcinoma. This gene affects the sensitivity of tumor cells to adenovirus infection. The protein encoded by this gene acts as a receptor for adherent-invasive E. coli adhesion to the surface of ileal epithelial cells in patients with Crohn's disease. This gene is clustered with genes and pseudogenes of the cell adhesion molecules subgroup of the CEA family on chromosome 19. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2014]	CEACAM6 (Carcinoembryonic Antigen-Related Cell Adhesion Molecule 6 (Non-Specific Cross Reacting Antigen)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CEACAM6 include cholangiocarcinoma. An important paralog of this gene is CEACAM8.	empty	same
CEACAM5	Members of the CEACAM subfamily, including CEACAM5, belong to the CEA gene family. For general information on the CEA gene family, see CEACAM1 (MIM 109770).[supplied by OMIM, Oct 2009]	CEACAM5 (Carcinoembryonic Antigen-Related Cell Adhesion Molecule 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CEACAM5 include urethral diverticulum and urachal cancer. Among its related pathways are Adhesion and Lymphocyte Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is CEACAM8.	Cell surface glycoprotein that plays a role in cell adhesion and in intracellular signaling. Receptor for E.coli Dr adhesins.	same
CEBPA	This intronless gene encodes a transcription factor that contains a basic leucine zipper (bZIP) domain and recognizes the CCAAT motif in the promoters of target genes. The encoded protein functions in homodimers and also heterodimers with CCAAT/enhancer-binding proteins beta and gamma. Activity of this protein can modulate the expression of genes involved in cell cycle regulation as well as in body weight homeostasis. Mutation of this gene is associated with acute myeloid leukemia. The use of alternative in-frame non-AUG (GUG) and AUG start codons results in protein isoforms with different lengths. Differential translation initiation is mediated by an out-of-frame, upstream open reading frame which is located between the GUG and the first AUG start codons. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2013]	CEBPA (CCAAT/Enhancer Binding Protein (C/EBP), Alpha) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CEBPA include familial acute myeloid leukemia with mutated cebpa and acute myeloid leukemia with cebpa somatic mutations. Among its related pathways are Pathways in cancer and L1CAM interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and sequence-specific DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is CEBPE.	Transcription factor that coordinates proliferation arrest and the differentiation of myeloid progenitors, adipocytes, hepatocytes, and cells of the lung and the placenta. Binds directly to the consensus DNA sequence 5-T[TG]NNGNAA[TG]-3 acting as an activator on distinct target genes (PubMed:11242107). During early embryogenesis, plays essential and redundant functions with CEBPB. Essential for the transition from common myeloid progenitors (CMP) to granulocyte/monocyte progenitors (GMP). Critical for the proper development of the liver and the lung (By similarity). Necessary for terminal adipocyte differentiation, is required for postnatal maintenance of systemic energy homeostasis and lipid storage (By similarity). To regulate these different processes at the proper moment and tissue, interplays with other transcription factors and modulators. Downregulates the expression of genes that maintain cells in an undifferentiated and proliferative state through E2F1 repression, which is critical for its ability to induce adipocyte and granulocyte terminal differentiation. Reciprocally E2F1 blocks adipocyte differentiation by binding to specific promoters and repressing CEBPA binding to its target gene promoters. Proliferation arrest also depends on a functional binding to SWI/SNF complex (PubMed:14660596). In liver, regulates gluconeogenesis and lipogenesis through different mechanisms. To regulate gluconeogenesis, functionally cooperates with FOXO1 binding to IRE-controlled promoters and regulating the expression of target genes such as PCK1 or G6PC. To modulate lipogenesis, interacts and transcriptionally synergizes with SREBF1 in promoter activation of specific lipogenic target genes such as ACAS2. In adipose tissue, seems to act as FOXO1 coactivator accessing to ADIPOQ promoter through FOXO1 binding sites (By similarity).	same
CEACAM8	empty	CEACAM8 (Carcinoembryonic Antigen-Related Cell Adhesion Molecule 8) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CEACAM5.	empty	same
CEACAM18	empty	CEACAM18 (Carcinoembryonic Antigen-Related Cell Adhesion Molecule 18) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CEACAM8.	empty	same
CEACAM22P	empty	CEACAM22P (Carcinoembryonic Antigen-Related Cell Adhesion Molecule 22, Pseudogene) is a Pseudogene.	empty	same
CEBPB	This intronless gene encodes a transcription factor that contains a basic leucine zipper (bZIP) domain. The encoded protein functions as a homodimer but can also form heterodimers with CCAAT/enhancer-binding proteins alpha, delta, and gamma. Activity of this protein is important in the regulation of genes involved in immune and inflammatory responses, among other processes. The use of alternative in-frame AUG start codons results in multiple protein isoforms, each with distinct biological functions. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2013]	CEBPB (CCAAT/Enhancer Binding Protein (C/EBP), Beta) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are L1CAM interactions and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and sequence-specific DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is CEBPE.	Important transcription factor regulating the expression of genes involved in immune and inflammatory responses (PubMed:9374525, PubMed:12048245, PubMed:18647749). Plays also a significant role in adipogenesis, as well as in the gluconeogenic pathway, liver regeneration, and hematopoiesis. The consensus recognition site is 5-T[TG]NNGNAA[TG]-3. Its functional capacity is governed by protein interactions and post-translational protein modifications. During early embryogenesis, plays essential and redundant functions with CEBPA. Has a promitotic effect on many cell types such as hepatocytes and adipocytes but has an antiproliferative effect on T-cells by repressing MYC expression, facilitating differentiation along the T-helper 2 lineage. Binds to regulatory regions of several acute-phase and cytokines genes and plays a role in the regulation of acute-phase reaction and inflammation. Plays also a role in intracellular bacteria killing (By similarity). During adipogenesis, is rapidly expressed and, after activation by phosphorylation, induces CEBPA and PPARG, which turn on the series of adipocyte genes that give rise to the adipocyte phenotype. The delayed transactivation of the CEBPA and PPARG genes by CEBPB appears necessary to allow mitotic clonal expansion and thereby progression of terminal differentiation (PubMed:20829347). Essential for female reproduction because of a critical role in ovarian follicle development (By similarity). Restricts osteoclastogenesis (By similarity).	same
CEBPD	The protein encoded by this intronless gene is a bZIP transcription factor which can bind as a homodimer to certain DNA regulatory regions. It can also form heterodimers with the related protein CEBP-alpha. The encoded protein is important in the regulation of genes involved in immune and inflammatory responses, and may be involved in the regulation of genes associated with activation and/or differentiation of macrophages. The cytogenetic location of this locus has been reported as both 8p11 and 8q11. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]	CEBPD (CCAAT/Enhancer Binding Protein (C/EBP), Delta) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CEBPD include prostate cancer. Among its related pathways are L1CAM interactions and IL6-mediated signaling events. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and sequence-specific DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is CEBPE.	C/EBP is a DNA-binding protein that recognizes two different motifs: the CCAAT homology common to many promoters and the enhanced core homology common to many enhancers. Important transcriptional activator in the regulation of genes involved in immune and inflammatory responses, may play an important role in the regulation of the several genes associated with activation and/or differentiation of macrophages	same
CEACAM1	This gene encodes a member of the carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) gene family, which belongs to the immunoglobulin superfamily. Two subgroups of the CEA family, the CEA cell adhesion molecules and the pregnancy-specific glycoproteins, are located within a 1.2 Mb cluster on the long arm of chromosome 19. Eleven pseudogenes of the CEA cell adhesion molecule subgroup are also found in the cluster. The encoded protein was originally described in bile ducts of liver as biliary glycoprotein. Subsequently, it was found to be a cell-cell adhesion molecule detected on leukocytes, epithelia, and endothelia. The encoded protein mediates cell adhesion via homophilic as well as heterophilic binding to other proteins of the subgroup. Multiple cellular activities have been attributed to the encoded protein, including roles in the differentiation and arrangement of tissue three-dimensional structure, angiogenesis, apoptosis, tumor suppression, metastasis, and the modulation of innate and adaptive immune responses. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been reported, but the full-length nature of all variants has not been defined. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	CEACAM1 (Carcinoembryonic Antigen-Related Cell Adhesion Molecule 1 (Biliary Glycoprotein)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CEACAM1 include gonorrhea and adenomatoid tumor. Among its related pathways are Adhesion and EGFR1 Signaling Pathway. An important paralog of this gene is CEACAM8.	empty	same
CEACAM3	This gene encodes a member of the family of carcinoembryonic antigen-related cell adhesion molecules (CEACAMs), which are used by several bacterial pathogens to bind and invade host cells. The encoded transmembrane protein directs phagocytosis of several bacterial species that is dependent on the small GTPase Rac. It is thought to serve an important role in controlling human-specific pathogens by the innate immune system. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2013]	CEACAM3 (Carcinoembryonic Antigen-Related Cell Adhesion Molecule 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CEACAM3 include gastric duplication cysts and pancreatic cystadenoma. An important paralog of this gene is CEACAM8.	Major granulocyte receptor mediating recognition and efficient opsonin-independent phagocytosis of CEACAM-binding microorganisms, including Neissiria, Moxarella and Haemophilus species, thus playing an important role in the clearance of pathogens by the innate immune system. Responsible for RAC1 stimulation in the course of pathogen phagocytosis.	same
CEBPE	The protein encoded by this gene is a bZIP transcription factor which can bind as a homodimer to certain DNA regulatory regions. It can also form heterodimers with the related protein CEBP-delta. The encoded protein may be essential for terminal differentiation and functional maturation of committed granulocyte progenitor cells. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Specific Granule Deficiency, a rare congenital disorder. Multiple variants of this gene have been described, but the full-length nature of only one has been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CEBPE (CCAAT/Enhancer Binding Protein (C/EBP), Epsilon) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CEBPE include specific granule deficiency and neutrophil-specific granule deficiency. Among its related pathways are Transcriptional misregulation in cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and sequence-specific DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is CEBPG.	C/EBP are DNA-binding proteins that recognize two different motifs: the CCAAT homology common to many promoters and the enhanced core homology common to many enhancers	same
CEBPZ	empty	CEBPZ (CCAAT/Enhancer Binding Protein (C/EBP), Zeta) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CEBPZ include normal pressure hydrocephalus. Among its related pathways are Direct p53 effectors and Gastric cancer network 2.	Stimulates transcription from the HSP70 promoter	same
CEBPG	The C/EBP family of transcription factors regulates viral and cellular CCAAT/enhancer element-mediated transcription. C/EBP proteins contain the bZIP region, which is characterized by two motifs in the C-terminal half of the protein: a basic region involved in DNA binding and a leucine zipper motif involved in dimerization. The C/EBP family consist of several related proteins, C/EBP alpha, C/EBP beta, C/EBP gamma, and C/EBP delta, that form homodimers and that form heterodimers with each other. CCAAT/enhancer binding protein gamma may cooperate with Fos to bind PRE-I enhancer elements. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]	CEBPG (CCAAT/Enhancer Binding Protein (C/EBP), Gamma) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Akt Signaling and Tuberculosis. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and protein heterodimerization activity. An important paralog of this gene is CEBPE.	Transcription factor that binds to the enhancer element PRE-I (positive regulatory element-I) of the IL-4 gene. Might change the DNA-binding specificity of other transcription factors and recruit them to unusual DNA sites	same
CECR5	empty	CECR5 (Cat Eye Syndrome Chromosome Region, Candidate 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CECR5 include cat eye syndrome.	empty	same
CEACAM21	empty	CEACAM21 (Carcinoembryonic Antigen-Related Cell Adhesion Molecule 21) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CEACAM8.	empty	same
CECR1	This gene encodes a member of a subfamily of the adenosine deaminase protein family. The encoded protein is one of two adenosine deaminases found in humans, which regulate levels of the signaling molecule, adenosine. The encoded protein is secreted from monocytes undergoing differentiation and may regulate cell proliferation and differentiation. This gene may be responsible for some of the phenotypic features associated with cat eye syndrome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2013]	CECR1 (Cat Eye Syndrome Chromosome Region, Candidate 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CECR1 include polyarteritis nodosa, childhood-onset and sneddon syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and heparin binding.	Adenosine deaminase that may contribute to the degradation of extracellular adenosine, a signaling molecule that controls a variety of cellular responses. Requires elevated adenosine levels for optimal enzyme activity. Binds to cell surfaces via proteoglycans and may play a role in the regulation of cell proliferation and differentiation, independently of its enzyme activity.	same
CECR2	This gene encodes a bromodomain-containing protein that is involved in chromatin remodeling, and may additionally play a role in DNA damage response. The encoded protein functions as part of an ATP-dependent complex that is involved in neurulation. This gene is a candidate gene for Cat Eye Syndrome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2014]	CECR2 (Cat Eye Syndrome Chromosome Region, Candidate 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CECR2 include cat eye syndrome. An important paralog of this gene is KAT2A.	Part of the CERF (CECR2-containing-remodeling factor) complex, which facilitates the perturbation of chromatin structure in an ATP-dependent manner. May be involved through its interaction with LRPPRC in the integration of cytoskeletal network with vesicular trafficking, nucleocytosolic shuttling, transcription, chromosome remodeling and cytokinesis.	same
CELA1	Elastases form a subfamily of serine proteases that hydrolyze many proteins in addition to elastin. Humans have six elastase genes which encode the structurally similar proteins elastase 1, 2, 2A, 2B, 3A, and 3B. Unlike other elastases, pancreatic elastase 1 is not expressed in the pancreas. To date, elastase 1 expression has only been detected in skin keratinocytes. Clinical literature that describes human elastase 1 activity in the pancreas or fecal material is actually referring to chymotrypsin-like elastase family, member 3B. [provided by RefSeq, May 2009]	CELA1 (Chymotrypsin-Like Elastase Family, Member 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CELA1 include pancreatic steatorrhea and steatorrhea. GO annotations related to this gene include serine-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CELA2B.	Acts upon elastin	same
CECR7	empty	CECR7 (Cat Eye Syndrome Chromosome Region, Candidate 7 (Non-Protein Coding)) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class. Diseases associated with CECR7 include cat eye syndrome.	empty	same
CELA2B	Elastases form a subfamily of serine proteases that hydrolyze many proteins in addition to elastin. Humans have six elastase genes which encode the structurally similar proteins elastase 1, 2, 2A, 2B, 3A, and 3B. Like most of the human elastases, elastase 2B is secreted from the pancreas as a zymogen. In other species, elastase 2B has been shown to preferentially cleave proteins after leucine, methionine, and phenylalanine residues. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CELA2B (Chymotrypsin-Like Elastase Family, Member 2B) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Pancreatic secretion and Protein digestion and absorption. GO annotations related to this gene include serine-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CELA3A.	Acts upon elastin	same
CELA2A	Elastases form a subfamily of serine proteases that hydrolyze many proteins in addition to elastin. Humans have six elastase genes which encode the structurally similar proteins elastase 1, 2, 2A, 2B, 3A, and 3B. Like most of the human elastases, elastase 2A is secreted from the pancreas as a zymogen. In other species, elastase 2A has been shown to preferentially cleave proteins after leucine, methionine, and phenylalanine residues. [provided by RefSeq, May 2009]	CELA2A (Chymotrypsin-Like Elastase Family, Member 2A) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Pancreatic secretion and Protein digestion and absorption. GO annotations related to this gene include serine-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CELA2B.	Acts upon elastin	same
CELA3B	Elastases form a subfamily of serine proteases that hydrolyze many proteins in addition to elastin. Humans have six elastase genes which encode the structurally similar proteins elastase 1, 2, 2A, 2B, 3A, and 3B. Unlike other elastases, elastase 3B has little elastolytic activity. Like most of the human elastases, elastase 3B is secreted from the pancreas as a zymogen and, like other serine proteases such as trypsin, chymotrypsin and kallikrein, it has a digestive function in the intestine. Elastase 3B preferentially cleaves proteins after alanine residues. Elastase 3B may also function in the intestinal transport and metabolism of cholesterol. Both elastase 3A and elastase 3B have been referred to as protease E and as elastase 1, and excretion of this protein in fecal material is frequently used as a measure of pancreatic function in clinical assays. [provided by RefSeq, May 2009]	CELA3B (Chymotrypsin-Like Elastase Family, Member 3B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CELA3B include actinobacillosis and pancreatic steatorrhea. Among its related pathways are Pancreatic secretion and Protein digestion and absorption. GO annotations related to this gene include serine-type endopeptidase activity and peptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CELA2B.	Efficient protease with alanine specificity but only little elastolytic activity	same
CELA3A	Elastases form a subfamily of serine proteases that hydrolyze many proteins in addition to elastin. Humans have six elastase genes which encode the structurally similar proteins elastase 1, 2, 2A, 2B, 3A, and 3B. Unlike other elastases, elastase 3A has little elastolytic activity. Like most of the human elastases, elastase 3A is secreted from the pancreas as a zymogen and, like other serine proteases such as trypsin, chymotrypsin and kallikrein, it has a digestive function in the intestine. Elastase 3A preferentially cleaves proteins after alanine residues. Elastase 3A may also function in the intestinal transport and metabolism of cholesterol. Both elastase 3A and elastase 3B have been referred to as protease E and as elastase 1. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CELA3A (Chymotrypsin-Like Elastase Family, Member 3A) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Pancreatic secretion and Protein digestion and absorption. GO annotations related to this gene include serine-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CELA2B.	Efficient protease with alanine specificity but only little elastolytic activity	same
CELF1	Members of the CELF/BRUNOL protein family contain two N-terminal RNA recognition motif (RRM) domains, one C-terminal RRM domain, and a divergent segment of 160-230 aa between the second and third RRM domains. Members of this protein family regulate pre-mRNA alternative splicing and may also be involved in mRNA editing, and translation. This gene may play a role in myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1) via interactions with the dystrophia myotonica-protein kinase (DMPK) gene. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CELF1 (CUGBP, Elav-Like Family Member 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CELF1 include myotonic dystrophy 2 and myotonic dystrophy 1. Among its related pathways are mRNA Splicing - Major Pathway and Adipogenesis. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and mRNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is CELF5.	RNA-binding protein implicated in the regulation of several post-transcriptional events. Involved in pre-mRNA alternative splicing, mRNA translation and stability. Mediates exon inclusion and/or exclusion in pre-mRNA that are subject to tissue-specific and developmentally regulated alternative splicing. Specifically activates exon 5 inclusion of cardiac isoforms of TNNT2 during heart remodeling at the juvenile to adult transition. Acts as both an activator and repressor of a pair of coregulated exons: promotes inclusion of the smooth muscle (SM) exon but exclusion of the non-muscle (NM) exon in actinin pre-mRNAs. Activates SM exon 5 inclusion by antagonizing the repressive effect of PTB. Promotes exclusion of exon 11 of the INSR pre-mRNA. Inhibits, together with HNRNPH1, insulin receptor (IR) pre-mRNA exon 11 inclusion in myoblast. Increases translation and controls the choice of translation initiation codon of CEBPB mRNA. Increases mRNA translation of CEBPB in aging liver (By similarity). Increases translation of CDKN1A mRNA by antagonizing the repressive effect of CALR3. Mediates rapid cytoplasmic mRNA deadenylation. Recruits the deadenylase PARN to the poly(A) tail of EDEN-containing mRNAs to promote their deadenylation. Required for completion of spermatogenesis (By similarity). Binds to (CUG)n triplet repeats in the 3-UTR of transcripts such as DMPK and to Bruno response elements (BREs). Binds to muscle-specific splicing enhancer (MSE) intronic sites flanking the alternative exon 5 of TNNT2 pre-mRNA. Binds to AU-rich sequences (AREs or EDEN-like) localized in the 3-UTR of JUN and FOS mRNAs. Binds to the IR RNA. Binds to the 5-region of CDKN1A and CEBPB mRNAs. Binds with the 5-region of CEBPB mRNA in aging liver.	same
CELF2	Members of the CELF/BRUNOL protein family contain two N-terminal RNA recognition motif (RRM) domains, one C-terminal RRM domain, and a divergent segment of 160-230 aa between the second and third RRM domains. Members of this protein family regulate pre-mRNA alternative splicing and may also be involved in mRNA editing, and translation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CELF2 (CUGBP, Elav-Like Family Member 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CELF2 include neuroblastoma. Among its related pathways are mRNA Splicing - Major Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and nucleotide binding. An important paralog of this gene is CELF5.	RNA-binding protein implicated in the regulation of several post-transcriptional events. Involved in pre-mRNA alternative splicing, mRNA translation and stability. Mediates exon inclusion and/or exclusion in pre-mRNA that are subject to tissue-specific and developmentally regulated alternative splicing. Specifically activates exon 5 inclusion of TNNT2 in embryonic, but not adult, skeletal muscle. Activates TNNT2 exon 5 inclusion by antagonizing the repressive effect of PTB. Acts as both an activator and repressor of a pair of coregulated exons: promotes inclusion of the smooth muscle (SM) exon but exclusion of the non-muscle (NM) exon in actinin pre-mRNAs. Promotes inclusion of exonS 21 and exclusion of exon 5 of the NMDA receptor R1 pre-mRNA. Involved in the apoB RNA editing activity. Increases COX2 mRNA stability and inhibits COX2 mRNA translation in epithelial cells after radiation injury (By similarity). Modulates the cellular apoptosis program by regulating COX2-mediated prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) expression (By similarity). Binds to (CUG)n triplet repeats in the 3-UTR of transcripts such as DMPK. Binds to the muscle-specific splicing enhancer (MSE) intronic sites flanking the TNNT2 alternative exon 5. Binds preferentially to UG-rich sequences, in particular UG repeat and UGUU motifs. Binds to apoB mRNA, specifically to AU-rich sequences located immediatly upstream of the edited cytidine. Binds AU-rich sequences in the 3-UTR of COX2 mRNA (By similarity). Binds to an intronic RNA element responsible for the silencing of exon 21 splicing (By similarity). Binds to (CUG)n repeats (By similarity).	same
CELF5	This gene encodes a member of the the CELF/BRUNOL protein family, which contain two N-terminal RNA recognition motif (RRM) domains, one C-terminal RRM domain, and a divergent segment of 160-230 aa between the second and third RRM domains. Members of this protein family regulate pre-mRNA alternative splicing and may also be involved in mRNA editing and translation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]	CELF5 (CUGBP, Elav-Like Family Member 5) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and nucleotide binding. An important paralog of this gene is CELF4.	RNA-binding protein implicated in the regulation of pre-mRNA alternative splicing. Mediates exon inclusion and/or exclusion in pre-mRNA that are subject to tissue-specific and developmentally regulated alternative splicing. Specifically activates exon 5 inclusion of cardiac isoforms of TNNT2 during heart remodeling at the juvenile to adult transition. Binds to muscle-specific splicing enhancer (MSE) intronic sites flanking the alternative exon 5 of TNNT2 pre-mRNA.	same
CELF4	Members of the CELF/BRUNOL protein family contain two N-terminal RNA recognition motif (RRM) domains, one C-terminal RRM domain, and a divergent segment of 160-230 aa between the second and third RRM domains. Members of this protein family regulate pre-mRNA alternative splicing and may also be involved in mRNA editing, and translation. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CELF4 (CUGBP, Elav-Like Family Member 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CELF4 include seizure disorder. Among its related pathways are mRNA Splicing - Major Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleotide binding and translation repressor activity, nucleic acid binding. An important paralog of this gene is CELF5.	RNA-binding protein implicated in the regulation of pre-mRNA alternative splicing. Mediates exon inclusion and/or exclusion in pre-mRNA that are subject to tissue-specific and developmentally regulated alternative splicing. Specifically activates exon 5 inclusion of cardiac isoforms of TNNT2 during heart remodeling at the juvenile to adult transition. Promotes exclusion of both the smooth muscle (SM) and non-muscle (NM) exons in actinin pre-mRNAs. Activates the splicing of MAPT/Tau exon 10. Binds to muscle-specific splicing enhancer (MSE) intronic sites flanking the alternative exon 5 of TNNT2 pre-mRNA.	same
CELP	empty	CELP (Carboxyl Ester Lipase Pseudogene) is a Pseudogene.	empty	same
CELF3	Members of the CELF/BRUNOL protein family contain two N-terminal RNA recognition motif (RRM) domains, one C-terminal RRM domain, and a divergent segment of 160-230 aa between the second and third RRM domains. Members of this protein family regulate pre-mRNA alternative splicing and may also be involved in mRNA editing, and translation. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified in this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]	CELF3 (CUGBP, Elav-Like Family Member 3) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and mRNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is CELF5.	RNA-binding protein involved in the regulation of pre-mRNA alternative splicing. Mediates exon inclusion and/or exclusion in pre-mRNA that are subject to tissue-specific and developmentally regulated alternative splicing. Specifically activates exon 5 inclusion of cardiac isoforms of TNNT2 during heart remodeling at the juvenile to adult transition. Activates the splicing of MAPT/Tau exon 10. Binds to muscle-specific splicing enhancer (MSE) intronic sites flanking the alternative exon 5 of TNNT2 pre-mRNA.	same
CELSR1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the flamingo subfamily, part of the cadherin superfamily. The flamingo subfamily consists of nonclassic-type cadherins; a subpopulation that does not interact with catenins. The flamingo cadherins are located at the plasma membrane and have nine cadherin domains, seven epidermal growth factor-like repeats and two laminin A G-type repeats in their ectodomain. They also have seven transmembrane domains, a characteristic unique to this subfamily. It is postulated that these proteins are receptors involved in contact-mediated communication, with cadherin domains acting as homophilic binding regions and the EGF-like domains involved in cell adhesion and receptor-ligand interactions. This particular member is a developmentally regulated, neural-specific gene which plays an unspecified role in early embryogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CELSR1 (Cadherin, EGF LAG Seven-Pass G-Type Receptor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CELSR1 include neural tube defects and craniorachischisis. Among its related pathways are Glucose / Energy Metabolism and GPCRs, Other. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and protein dimerization activity. An important paralog of this gene is FAT4.	Receptor that may have an important role in cell/cell signaling during nervous system formation	same
CELSR3	This gene belongs to the flamingo subfamily, which is included in the cadherin superfamily. The flamingo cadherins consist of nonclassic-type cadherins that do not interact with catenins. They are plasma membrane proteins containing seven epidermal growth factor-like repeats, nine cadherin domains and two laminin A G-type repeats in their ectodomain. They also have seven transmembrane domains, a characteristic feature of their subfamily. The encoded protein may be involved in the regulation of contact-dependent neurite growth and may play a role in tumor formation. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2013]	CELSR3 (Cadherin, EGF LAG Seven-Pass G-Type Receptor 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds and GPCRs, Other. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and G-protein coupled receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is FAT4.	Receptor that may have an important role in cell/cell signaling during nervous system formation	same
CEL	The protein encoded by this gene is a glycoprotein secreted from the pancreas into the digestive tract and from the lactating mammary gland into human milk. The physiological role of this protein is in cholesterol and lipid-soluble vitamin ester hydrolysis and absorption. This encoded protein promotes large chylomicron production in the intestine. Also its presence in plasma suggests its interactions with cholesterol and oxidized lipoproteins to modulate the progression of atherosclerosis. In pancreatic tumoral cells, this encoded protein is thought to be sequestrated within the Golgi compartment and is probably not secreted. This gene contains a variable number of tandem repeat (VNTR) polymorphism in the coding region that may influence the function of the encoded protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CEL (Carboxyl Ester Lipase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CEL include maturity-onset diabetes of the young, type viii and maturity-onset diabetes of the young. Among its related pathways are Apoptotic Pathways in Synovial Fibroblasts and Lysosome. GO annotations related to this gene include heparin binding. An important paralog of this gene is CES2.	Catalyzes fat and vitamin absorption. Acts in concert with pancreatic lipase and colipase for the complete digestion of dietary triglycerides	same
CEMP1	empty	CEMP1 (Cementum Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CEMP1 include cryptosporidiosis.	empty	same
CEND1	The protein encoded by this gene is a neuron-specific protein. The similar protein in pig enhances neuroblastoma cell differentiation in vitro and may be involved in neuronal differentiation in vivo. Multiple pseudogenes have been reported for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CEND1 (Cell Cycle Exit And Neuronal Differentiation 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CEND1 include neuroblastoma. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle / Checkpoint Control and Neuroscience.	Involved in neuroblastoma cell differentiation.	same
CENPBD1	empty	CENPBD1 (CENPB DNA-Binding Domains Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CECR6	empty	CECR6 (Cat Eye Syndrome Chromosome Region, Candidate 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CECR6 include cat eye syndrome.	empty	same
CENPB	This gene product is a highly conserved protein that facilitates centromere formation. It is a DNA-binding protein that is derived from transposases of the pogo DNA transposon family. It contains a helix-loop-helix DNA binding motif at the N-terminus, and a dimerization domain at the C-terminus. The DNA binding domain recognizes and binds a 17-bp sequence (CENP-B box) in the centromeric alpha satellite DNA. This protein is proposed to play an important role in the assembly of specific centromere structures in interphase nuclei and on mitotic chromosomes. It is also considered a major centromere autoantigen recognized by sera from patients with anti-centromere antibodies. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CENPB (Centromere Protein B, 80kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CENPB include raynaud disease and crest syndrome. Among its related pathways are FOXM1 transcription factor network. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding and centromeric DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is TIGD5.	Interacts with centromeric heterochromatin in chromosomes and binds to a specific 17 bp subset of alphoid satellite DNA, called the CENP-B box. May organize arrays of centromere satellite DNA into a higher-order structure which then directs centromere formation and kinetochore assembly in mammalian chromosomes	same
CENPH	Centromere and kinetochore proteins play a critical role in centromere structure, kinetochore formation, and sister chromatid separation. The protein encoded by this gene colocalizes with inner kinetochore plate proteins CENP-A and CENP-C in both interphase and metaphase. It localizes outside of centromeric heterochromatin, where CENP-B is localized, and inside the kinetochore corona, where CENP-E is localized during prometaphase. It is thought that this protein can bind to itself, as well as to CENP-A, CENP-B or CENP-C. Multimers of the protein localize constitutively to the inner kinetochore plate and play an important role in the organization and function of the active centromere-kinetochore complex. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CENPH (Centromere Protein H) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include kinetochore binding.	Component of the CENPA-NAC (nucleosome-associated) complex, a complex that plays a central role in assembly of kinetochore proteins, mitotic progression and chromosome segregation. The CENPA-NAC complex recruits the CENPA-CAD (nucleosome distal) complex and may be involved in incorporation of newly synthesized CENPA into centromeres. Required for chromosome congression and efficiently align the chromosomes on a metaphase plate.	same
CELF6	Members of the CELF/BRUNOL protein family contain two N-terminal RNA recognition motif (RRM) domains, one C-terminal RRM domain, and a divergent segment of 160-230 aa between the second and third RRM domains. Members of this protein family regulate pre-mRNA alternative splicing and may also be involved in mRNA editing, and translation. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified in this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]	CELF6 (CUGBP, Elav-Like Family Member 6) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and nucleotide binding. An important paralog of this gene is CELF5.	RNA-binding protein implicated in the regulation of pre-mRNA alternative splicing. Mediates exon inclusion and/or exclusion in pre-mRNA that are subject to tissue-specific and developmentally regulated alternative splicing. Specifically activates exon 5 inclusion of TNNT2 in a muscle-specific splicing enhancer (MSE)-dependent manner. Promotes also exon exclusion of INSR pre-mRNA.	same
CENPK	CENPK is a subunit of a CENPH (MIM 605607)-CENPI (MIM 300065)-associated centromeric complex that targets CENPA (MIM 117139) to centromeres and is required for proper kinetochore function and mitotic progression (Okada et al., 2006 [PubMed 16622420]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CENPK (Centromere Protein K) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic.	Component of the CENPA-CAD (nucleosome distal) complex, a complex recruited to centromeres which is involved in assembly of kinetochore proteins, mitotic progression and chromosome segregation. May be involved in incorporation of newly synthesized CENPA into centromeres via its interaction with the CENPA-NAC complex. Acts in coordination with CASC5/KNL1 to recruit the NDC80 complex to the outer kinetochore.	same
CENPI	The product of this gene is involved in the response of gonadal tissues to follicle-stimulating hormone. This gene is also a potential candidate for human X-linked disorders of gonadal development and gametogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CENPI (Centromere Protein I) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic.	Component of the CENPA-CAD (nucleosome distal) complex, a complex recruited to centromeres which is involved in assembly of kinetochore proteins, mitotic progression and chromosome segregation. May be involved in incorporation of newly synthesized CENPA into centromeres via its interaction with the CENPA-NAC complex. Required for the localization of CENPF, MAD1L1 and MAD2 (MAD2L1 or MAD2L2) to kinetochores. Involved in the response of gonadal tissues to follicle-stimulating hormone.	same
CENPF	This gene encodes a protein that associates with the centromere-kinetochore complex. The protein is a component of the nuclear matrix during the G2 phase of interphase. In late G2 the protein associates with the kinetochore and maintains this association through early anaphase. It localizes to the spindle midzone and the intracellular bridge in late anaphase and telophase, respectively, and is thought to be subsequently degraded. The localization of this protein suggests that it may play a role in chromosome segregation during mitotis. It is thought to form either a homodimer or heterodimer. Autoantibodies against this protein have been found in patients with cancer or graft versus host disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CENPF (Centromere Protein F, 350/400kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and transcription factor binding.	Required for kinetochore function and chromosome segregation in mitosis. Required for kinetochore localization of dynein, LIS1, NDE1 and NDEL1. Regulates recycling of the plasma membrane by acting as a link between recycling vesicles and the microtubule network though its association with STX4 and SNAP25. Acts as a potential inhibitor of pocket protein-mediated cellular processes during development by regulating the activity of RB proteins during cell division and proliferation. May play a regulatory or permissive role in the normal embryonic cardiomyocyte cell cycle and in promoting continued mitosis in transformed, abnormally dividing neonatal cardiomyocytes. Interaction with RB directs embryonic stem cells toward a cardiac lineage. Involved in the regulation of DNA synthesis and hence cell cycle progression, via its C-terminus. Has a potential role regulating skeletal myogenesis and in cell differentiation in embryogenesis. Involved in dendritic cell regulation of T-cell immunity against chlamydia.	same
CENPL	CENPL is a subunit of a CENPH (MIM 605607)-CENPI (MIM 300065)-associated centromeric complex that targets CENPA (MIM 117139) to centromeres and is required for proper kinetochore function and mitotic progression (Okada et al., 2006) [PubMed 16622420].[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CENPL (Centromere Protein L) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic.	Component of the CENPA-CAD (nucleosome distal) complex, a complex recruited to centromeres which is involved in assembly of kinetochore proteins, mitotic progression and chromosome segregation. May be involved in incorporation of newly synthesized CENPA into centromeres via its interaction with the CENPA-NAC complex.	same
CELSR2	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the flamingo subfamily, part of the cadherin superfamily. The flamingo subfamily consists of nonclassic-type cadherins; a subpopulation that does not interact with catenins. The flamingo cadherins are located at the plasma membrane and have nine cadherin domains, seven epidermal growth factor-like repeats and two laminin A G-type repeats in their ectodomain. They also have seven transmembrane domains, a characteristic unique to this subfamily. It is postulated that these proteins are receptors involved in contact-mediated communication, with cadherin domains acting as homophilic binding regions and the EGF-like domains involved in cell adhesion and receptor-ligand interactions. The specific function of this particular member has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CELSR2 (Cadherin, EGF LAG Seven-Pass G-Type Receptor 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CELSR2 include protein s deficiency. Among its related pathways are GPCRs, Other. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and G-protein coupled receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is FAT4.	Receptor that may have an important role in cell/cell signaling during nervous system formation	same
CENPA	Centromeres are the differentiated chromosomal domains that specify the mitotic behavior of chromosomes. CENPA encodes a centromere protein which contains a histone H3 related histone fold domain that is required for targeting to the centromere. CENPA is proposed to be a component of a modified nucleosome or nucleosome-like structure in which it replaces 1 or both copies of conventional histone H3 in the (H3-H4)2 tetrameric core of the nucleosome particle. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CENPA (Centromere Protein A) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include protein heterodimerization activity and chromatin binding.	Histone H3-like variant which exclusively replaces conventional H3 in the nucleosome core of centromeric chromatin at the inner plate of the kinetochore. Required for recruitment and assembly of kinetochore proteins, mitotic progression and chromosome segregation. May serve as an epigenetic mark that propagates centromere identity through replication and cell division. The CENPA-H4 heterotetramer can bind DNA by itself (in vitro).	same
CENPO	This gene encodes a component of the interphase centromere complex. The encoded protein is localized to the centromere throughout the cell cycle and is required for bipolar spindle assembly, chromosome segregation and checkpoint signaling during mitosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple protein isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]	CENPO (Centromere Protein O) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic.	Component of the CENPA-CAD (nucleosome distal) complex, a complex recruited to centromeres which is involved in assembly of kinetochore proteins, mitotic progression and chromosome segregation. May be involved in incorporation of newly synthesized CENPA into centromeres via its interaction with the CENPA-NAC complex. Modulates the kinetochore-bound levels of NDC80 complex.	same
CENPM	The protein encoded by this gene is an inner protein of the kinetochore, the multi-protein complex that binds spindle microtubules to regulate chromosome segregation during cell division. It belongs to the constitutive centromere-associated network protein group, whose members interact with outer kinetochore proteins and help to maintain centromere identity at each cell division cycle. The protein is structurally related to GTPases but cannot bind guanosine triphosphate. A point mutation that affects interaction with another constitutive centromere-associated network protein, CENP-I, impairs kinetochore assembly and chromosome alignment, suggesting that it is required for kinetochore formation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2015]	CENPM (Centromere Protein M) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic.	Component of the CENPA-NAC (nucleosome-associated) complex, a complex that plays a central role in assembly of kinetochore proteins, mitotic progression and chromosome segregation. The CENPA-NAC complex recruits the CENPA-CAD (nucleosome distal) complex and may be involved in incorporation of newly synthesized CENPA into centromeres.	same
CENPV	empty	CENPV (Centromere Protein V) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CENPV include intracranial primitive neuroectodermal tumor. GO annotations related to this gene include carbon-sulfur lyase activity.	Required for distribution of pericentromeric heterochromatin in interphase nuclei and for centromere formation and organization, chromosome alignment and cytokinesis.	same
CENPW	empty	CENPW (Centromere Protein W) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein heterodimerization activity.	Component of the CENPA-NAC (nucleosome-associated) complex, a complex that plays a central role in assembly of kinetochore proteins, mitotic progression and chromosome segregation (By similarity). The CENPA-NAC complex recruits the CENPA-CAD (nucleosome distal) complex and may be involved in incorporation of newly synthesized CENPA into centromeres (By similarity). Part of a nucleosome-associated complex that binds specifically to histone H3-containing nucleosomes at the centromere, as opposed to nucleosomes containing CENPA. Component of the heterotetrameric CENP-T-W-S-X complex that binds and supercoils DNA, and plays an important role in kinetochore assembly. CENPW has a fundamental role in kinetochore assembly and function. It is one of the inner kinetochore proteins, with most further proteins binding downstream. Required for normal chromosome organization and normal progress through mitosis.	same
CEP120	This gene encodes a protein that functions in the microtubule-dependent coupling of the nucleus and the centrosome. A similar protein in mouse plays a role in both interkinetic nuclear migration, which is a characteristic pattern of nuclear movement in neural progenitors, and in neural progenitor self-renewal. Mutations in this gene are predicted to result in neurogenic defects. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]	CEP120 (Centrosomal Protein 120kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein C-terminus binding.	Plays a role in the microtubule-dependent coupling of the nucleus and the centrosome. Involved in the processes that regulate centrosome-mediated interkinetic nuclear migration (INM) of neural progenitors and for proper positioning of neurons during brain development. Also implicated in the migration and selfrenewal of neural progenitors. May play a role in centriole duplication during mitosis (By similarity).	same
CEP110	empty	empty	empty	same
CENPE	Centrosome-associated protein E (CENPE) is a kinesin-like motor protein that accumulates in the G2 phase of the cell cycle. Unlike other centrosome-associated proteins, it is not present during interphase and first appears at the centromere region of chromosomes during prometaphase. This protein is required for stable spindle microtubule capture at kinetochores which is a necessary step in chromosome alignment during prometaphase. This protein also couples chromosome position to microtubule depolymerizing activity. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct protein isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]	CENPE (Centromere Protein E, 312kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CENPE include microcephaly 13, primary, autosomal recessive and seckel syndrome. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include microtubule binding and kinetochore binding. An important paralog of this gene is KIF5C.	Essential for the maintenance of chromosomal stability through efficient stabilization of microtubule capture at kinetochores. Plays a key role in the movement of chromosomes toward the metaphase plate during mitosis. Is a slow plus end-directed motor whose activity is essential for metaphase chromosome alignment. Couples chromosome position to microtubule depolymerizing activity. The highly processive microtubule-dependent motor activity of CENPE serves to power chromosome congression and provides a flexible, motile tether linking kinetochores to dynamic spindle microtubules. Necessary for the mitotic checkpoint signal at individual kinetochores to prevent aneuploidy due to single chromosome loss. Required for the efficient recruitment of BUBR1, MAD1 and MAD2 to attached and newly unattached kinetochores. Stimulates mammalian BUBR1 kinase activity. Accumulates just before mitosis at the G2 phase of the cell cycle.	same
CEP135	This gene encodes a centrosomal protein, which acts as a scaffolding protein during early centriole biogenesis, and is also required for centriole-centriole cohesion during interphase. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal recessive primary microcephaly-8. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]	CEP135 (Centrosomal Protein 135kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CEP135 include microcephaly 8, primary, autosomal recessive and primary autosomal recessive microcephalies and seckel syndrome spectrum disorders. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include protein C-terminus binding. An important paralog of this gene is TSGA10.	Centrosomal protein involved in centriole biogenesis. Acts as a scaffolding protein during early centriole biogenesis. Also required for centriole-centriole cohesion during interphase by acting as a platform protein for CEP250 at the centriole.	same
CENPC1	Centromere protein C 1 is a centromere autoantigen and a component of the inner kinetochore plate. The protein is required for maintaining proper kinetochore size and a timely transition to anaphase. A putative pseudogene exists on chromosome 12. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CENPC (Centromere Protein C) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CENPC include limited scleroderma. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic.	Component of the CENPA-NAC (nucleosome-associated) complex, a complex that plays a central role in assembly of kinetochore proteins, mitotic progression and chromosome segregation. The CENPA-NAC complex recruits the CENPA-CAD (nucleosome distal) complex and may be involved in incorporation of newly synthesized CENPA into centromeres. CENPC recruits DNA methylation and DNMT3B to both centromeric and pericentromeric satellite repeats and regulates the histone code in these regions.	diff
CENPQ	CENPQ is a subunit of a CENPH (MIM 605607)-CENPI (MIM 300065)-associated centromeric complex that targets CENPA (MIM 117139) to centromeres and is required for proper kinetochore function and mitotic progression (Okada et al., 2006 [PubMed 16622420]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CENPQ (Centromere Protein Q) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic.	Component of the CENPA-CAD (nucleosome distal) complex, a complex recruited to centromeres which is involved in assembly of kinetochore proteins, mitotic progression and chromosome segregation. May be involved in incorporation of newly synthesized CENPA into centromeres via its interaction with the CENPA-NAC complex.	same
CENPJ	This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the centromere protein family. During cell division, this protein plays a structural role in the maintenance of centrosome integrity and normal spindle morphology, and it is involved in microtubule disassembly at the centrosome. This protein can function as a transcriptional coactivator in the Stat5 signaling pathway, and also as a coactivator of NF-kappaB-mediated transcription, likely via its interaction with the coactivator p300/CREB-binding protein. Mutations in this gene are associated with primary autosomal recessive microcephaly, a disorder characterized by severely reduced brain size and mental retardation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]	CENPJ (Centromere Protein J) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CENPJ include microcephaly 6, primary, autosomal recessive and seckel syndrome 4. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and tubulin binding.	Plays an important role in cell division and centrosome function by participating in centriole duplication. Inhibits microtubule nucleation from the centrosome.	same
CEP170L	This locus appears to be a transcribed pseudogene similar to centrosomal protein 170kDa (CEP170). An approximately 50 kb region upstream of this locus also is homologous to CEP170, but is not transcribed. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CEP170P1 (Centrosomal Protein 170kDa Pseudogene 1) is a Pseudogene. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding.	empty	diff
CEP164	This gene encodes a centrosomal protein involved in microtubule organization, DNA damage response, and chromosome segregation. The encoded protein is required for assembly of primary cilia and localizes to mature centrioles. Defects in this gene are a cause of nephronophthisis-related ciliopathies. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]	CEP164 (Centrosomal Protein 164kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CEP164 include nephronophthisis 15 and senior-loken syndrome-1. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic.	Plays a role in microtubule organization and/or maintenance for the formation of primary cilia (PC), a microtubule-based structure that protrudes from the surface of epithelial cells. Plays a critical role in G2/M checkpoint and nuclear divisions. A key player in the DNA damage-activated ATR/ATM signaling cascade since it is required for the proper phosphorylation of H2AX, RPA, CHEK2 and CHEK1. Plays a critical role in chromosome segregation, acting as a mediator required for the maintenance of genomic stability through modulation of MDC1, RPA and CHEK1.	same
CEP170	The product of this gene is a component of the centrosome, a non-membraneous organelle that functions as the major microtubule-organizing center in animal cells. During interphase, the encoded protein localizes to the sub-distal appendages of mature centrioles, which are microtubule-based structures thought to help organize centrosomes. During mitosis, the protein associates with spindle microtubules near the centrosomes. The protein interacts with and is phosphorylated by polo-like kinase 1, and functions in maintaining microtubule organization and cell morphology. The human genome contains a putative transcribed pseudogene. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been found, but the full-length nature of some of these variants has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CEP170 (Centrosomal Protein 170kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CEP170B.	Plays a role in microtubule organization.	same
CEP192	empty	CEP192 (Centrosomal Protein 192kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include phosphatase binding.	Required for mitotic centrosome and spindle assembly. Appears to be a major regulator of pericentriolar material (PCM) recruitment, centrosome maturation, and centriole duplication.	same
CEP290	This gene encodes a protein with 13 putative coiled-coil domains, a region with homology to SMC chromosome segregation ATPases, six KID motifs, three tropomyosin homology domains and an ATP/GTP binding site motif A. The protein is localized to the centrosome and cilia and has sites for N-glycosylation, tyrosine sulfation, phosphorylation, N-myristoylation, and amidation. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Joubert syndrome and nephronophthisis and the presence of antibodies against this protein is associated with several forms of cancer. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CEP290 (Centrosomal Protein 290kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CEP290 include joubert syndrome 5 and senior-loken syndrome 6. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include microtubule minus-end binding.	Part of the tectonic-like complex which is required for tissue-specific ciliogenesis and may regulate ciliary membrane composition (By similarity). Activates ATF4-mediated transcription. Required for the correct localization of ciliary and phototransduction proteins in retinal photoreceptor cells; may play a role in ciliary transport processes.	same
CEP55	empty	CEP55 (Centrosomal Protein 55kDa) is a Protein Coding gene.	Plays a role in mitotic exit and cytokinesis. Not required for microtubule nucleation. Recruits PDCD6IP and TSG101 to midbody during cytokinesis.	same
CENPP	CENPP is a subunit of a CENPH (MIM 605607)-CENPI (MIM 300065)-associated centromeric complex that targets CENPA (MIM 117139) to centromeres and is required for proper kinetochore function and mitotic progression (Okada et al., 2006 [PubMed 16622420]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CENPP (Centromere Protein P) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic.	Component of the CENPA-CAD (nucleosome distal) complex, a complex recruited to centromeres which is involved in assembly of kinetochore proteins, mitotic progression and chromosome segregation. May be involved in incorporation of newly synthesized CENPA into centromeres via its interaction with the CENPA-NAC complex.	same
CEP57	This gene encodes a cytoplasmic protein called Translokin. This protein localizes to the centrosome and has a function in microtubular stabilization. The N-terminal half of this protein is required for its centrosome localization and for its multimerization, and the C-terminal half is required for nucleating, bundling and anchoring microtubules to the centrosomes. This protein specifically interacts with fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2), sorting nexin 6, Ran-binding protein M and the kinesins KIF3A and KIF3B, and thus mediates the nuclear translocation and mitogenic activity of the FGF2. It also interacts with cyclin D1 and controls nucleocytoplasmic distribution of the cyclin D1 in quiescent cells. This protein is crucial for maintaining correct chromosomal number during cell division. Mutations in this gene cause mosaic variegated aneuploidy syndrome, a rare autosomal recessive disorder. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	CEP57 (Centrosomal Protein 57kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CEP57 include mosaic variegated aneuploidy syndrome 2 and mosaic variegated aneuploidy syndrome. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and fibroblast growth factor binding. An important paralog of this gene is CEP57L1.	Centrosomal protein which may be required for microtubule attachment to centrosomes. May act by forming ring-like structures around microtubules. Mediates nuclear translocation and mitogenic activity of the internalized growth factor FGF2, but that of FGF1.	same
CENPN	The protein encoded by this gene forms part of the nucleosome-associated complex and is important for kinetochore assembly. It is bound to kinetochores during S phase and G2 and recruits other proteins to the centromere. Pseudogenes of this gene are located on chromosome 2. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]	CENPN (Centromere Protein N) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic.	Component of the CENPA-NAC (nucleosome-associated) complex, a complex that plays a central role in assembly of kinetochore proteins, mitotic progression and chromosome segregation. The CENPA-NAC complex recruits the CENPA-CAD (nucleosome distal) complex and may be involved in incorporation of newly synthesized CENPA into centromeres. CENPN is the first protein to bind specifically to CENPA nucleosomes and the direct binding of CENPA nucleosomes by CENPN is required for centromere assembly. Required for chromosome congression and efficiently align the chromosomes on a metaphase plate.	same
CENPT	The centromere is a specialized chromatin domain, present throughout the cell cycle, that acts as a platform on which the transient assembly of the kinetochore occurs during mitosis. All active centromeres are characterized by the presence of long arrays of nucleosomes in which CENPA (MIM 117139) replaces histone H3 (see MIM 601128). CENPT is an additional factor required for centromere assembly (Foltz et al., 2006 [PubMed 16622419]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CENPT (Centromere Protein T) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include protein heterodimerization activity.	Component of the CENPA-NAC (nucleosome-associated) complex, a complex that plays a central role in assembly of kinetochore proteins, mitotic progression and chromosome segregation. The CENPA-NAC complex recruits the CENPA-CAD (nucleosome distal) complex and may be involved in incorporation of newly synthesized CENPA into centromeres. Part of a nucleosome-associated complex that binds specifically to histone H3-containing nucleosomes at the centromere, as opposed to nucleosomes containing CENPA. Component of the heterotetrameric CENP-T-W-S-X complex that binds and supercoils DNA, and plays an important role in kinetochore assembly. CENPT has a fundamental role in kinetochore assembly and function. It is one of the inner kinetochore proteins, with most further proteins binding downstream. Required for normal chromosome organization and normal progress through mitosis.	same
CEP250	This gene encodes a core centrosomal protein required for centriole-centriole cohesion during interphase of the cell cycle. The encoded protein dissociates from the centrosomes when parental centrioles separate at the beginning of mitosis. The protein associates with and is phosphorylated by NIMA-related kinase 2, which is also associated with the centrosome. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]	CEP250 (Centrosomal Protein 250kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and protein C-terminus binding. An important paralog of this gene is CROCC.	Probably plays an important role in centrosome cohesion during interphase	same
CEP68	empty	CEP68 (Centrosomal Protein 68kDa) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CEP72	The product of this gene is a member of the leucine-rich-repeat (LRR) superfamily of proteins. The protein is localized to the centrosome, a non-membraneous organelle that functions as the major microtubule-organizing center in animal cells. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CEP72 (Centrosomal Protein 72kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is LRRC36.	Involved in the recruitment of key centrosomal proteins to the centrosome. Provides centrosomal microtubule-nucleation activity on the gamma-tubulin ring complexes (gamma-TuRCs) and has critical roles in forming a focused bipolar spindle, which is needed for proper tension generation between sister chromatids. Required for localization of KIZ, AKAP9 and gamma-tubulin ring complexes (gamma-TuRCs).	same
CEP76	This gene encodes a centrosomal protein which regulates centriole amplification by limiting centriole duplication to once per cell cycle. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]	CEP76 (Centrosomal Protein 76kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CEP76 include jawad syndrome and nail disease. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic.	Centrosomal protein involved in regulation of centriole duplication. Required to limit centriole duplication to once per cell cycle by preventing centriole reduplication.	same
CER1	This gene encodes a cytokine member of the cysteine knot superfamily, characterized by nine conserved cysteines and a cysteine knot region. The cerberus-related cytokines, together with Dan and DRM/Gremlin, represent a group of bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) antagonists that can bind directly to BMPs and inhibit their activity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CER1 (Cerberus 1, DAN Family BMP Antagonist) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CER1 include osteoporotic fracture and norrie disease. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and L1CAM interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and morphogen activity. An important paralog of this gene is DAND5.	Cytokine that may play a role in anterior neural induction and somite formation during embryogenesis in part through a BMP-inhibitory mechanism. Can regulate Nodal signaling during gastrulation as well as the formation and patterning of the primitive streak (By similarity).	same
CERCAM	empty	CERCAM (Cerebral Endothelial Cell Adhesion Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is COLGALT1.	Probable cell adhesion protein involved in leukocyte transmigration across the blood-brain barrier. Has apparently no beta-galactosyltransferase activity.	same
CEP78	empty	CEP78 (Centrosomal Protein 78kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic.	empty	same
CEP63	This gene encodes a protein with six coiled-coil domains. The protein is localized to the centrosome, a non-membraneous organelle that functions as the major microtubule-organizing center in animal cells. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found, but their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CEP63 (Centrosomal Protein 63kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CEP63 include seckel syndrome 6 and microcephaly, primary autosomal recessive. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. An important paralog of this gene is CCDC67.	Required for normal spindle assembly. Plays a key role in mother-centriole-dependent centriole duplication, through centrosomal recruitment of CEP152. Also recruits CDK1 to centrosomes. Plays a role in DNA damage response. Following DNA damage, such as double-strand breaks (DSBs), is removed from centrosomes; this leads to the inactivation of spindle assembly and delay in mitotic progression.	same
CEP97	empty	CEP97 (Centrosomal Protein 97kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include calmodulin binding.	Acts as a key negative regulator of ciliogenesis in collaboration with CCP110 by capping the mother centriole thereby preventing cilia formation. Required for recruitment of CCP110 to the centrosome.	same
CERKL	This gene was initially identified as a locus (RP26) associated with an autosomal recessive form of retinitis pigmentosa (arRP) disease. This gene encodes a protein with ceramide kinase-like domains, however, the protein does not phosphorylate ceramide and its target substrate is currently unknown. This protein may be a negative regulator of apoptosis in photoreceptor cells. Mutations in this gene cause a form of retinitis pigmentosa characterized by autosomal recessive cone and rod dystrophy (arCRD). Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms and non-coding transcripts.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	CERKL (Ceramide Kinase-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CERKL include retinitis pigmentosa 26 and cerkl-related retinitis pigmentosa. GO annotations related to this gene include NAD+ kinase activity and diacylglycerol kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is SPHK2.	Has no detectable ceramide-kinase activity. Overexpression of CERKL protects cells from apoptosis in oxidative stress conditions.	same
CEP152	This gene encodes a protein that is thought to be involved with centrosome function. Mutations in this gene have been associated with primary microcephaly (MCPH4). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]	CEP152 (Centrosomal Protein 152kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CEP152 include microcephaly 9, primary, autosomal recessive and seckel syndrome 5. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding.	Necessary for centrosome duplication. Acts as a molecular scaffold facilitating the interaction of PLK4 and CENPJ, 2 molecules involved in centriole formation. Also plays a key role in deuterosome-mediated centriole amplification in multiciliated that can generate more than 100 centrioles. Overexpression of CEP152 can drive amplification of centrioles.	same
CES2	This gene encodes a member of the carboxylesterase large family. The family members are responsible for the hydrolysis or transesterification of various xenobiotics, such as cocaine and heroin, and endogenous substrates with ester, thioester, or amide bonds. They may participate in fatty acyl and cholesterol ester metabolism, and may play a role in the blood-brain barrier system. The protein encoded by this gene is the major intestinal enzyme and functions in intestine drug clearance. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]	CES2 (Carboxylesterase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CES2 include colorectal cancer. Among its related pathways are the visual cycle I (vertebrates) and E2F transcription factor network. GO annotations related to this gene include methylumbelliferyl-acetate deacetylase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CES3.	Involved in the detoxification of xenobiotics and in the activation of ester and amide prodrugs. Shows high catalytic efficiency for hydrolysis of cocaine, 4-methylumbelliferyl acetate, heroin and 6-monoacetylmorphine.	same
CES3	This gene encodes a member of the carboxylesterase large family. The family members are responsible for the hydrolysis or transesterification of various xenobiotics, such as cocaine and heroin, and endogenous substrates with ester, thioester, or amide bonds. They may participate in fatty acyl and cholesterol ester metabolism, and may play a role in the blood-brain barrier system. This gene is expressed in several tissues, particularly in colon, trachea and in brain, and the protein participates in colon and neural drug metabolism. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been reported, but the biological validity and/or full-length nature of some variants have not been determined.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	CES3 (Carboxylesterase 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CES3 include dental pulp necrosis. Among its related pathways are E2F transcription factor network. An important paralog of this gene is CES2.	Involved in the detoxification of xenobiotics and in the activation of ester and amide prodrugs. Shows low catalytic efficiency for hydrolysis of CPT-11 (7-ethyl-10-[4-(1-piperidino)-1-piperidino]-carbonyloxycamptothecin), a prodrug for camptothecin used in cancer therapeutics	same
CEP350	The product of this gene is a large protein with a CAP-Gly domain typically found in cytoskeleton-associated proteins. The encoded protein primarily localizes to the centrosome, a non-membraneous organelle that functions as the major microtubule-organizing center in animal cells. The encoded protein directly interacts with another large centrosomal protein and is required to anchor microtubules at the centrosome. It is also implicated in the regulation of a class of nuclear hormone receptors in the nucleus. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found, but their full-length nature has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CEP350 (Centrosomal Protein 350kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CLIP4.	Plays an essential role in centriole growth by stabilizing a procentriolar seed composed of at least, SASS6 and CENPJ. Required for anchoring microtubules to the centrosomes and for the integrity of the microtubule network. Recruits PPARA to discrete subcellular compartments and thereby modulates PPARA activity.	same
CES7	This gene encodes a member of the carboxylesterase large family. The family members are responsible for the hydrolysis or transesterification of various xenobiotics, such as cocaine and heroin, and endogenous substrates with ester, thioester, or amide bonds. They also participate in fatty acyl and cholesterol ester metabolism, and may play a role in the blood-brain barrier system. This gene, also called CES5, is predominantly expressed in peripheral tissues, including brain, kidney, lung and testis. It encodes a secreted enzyme. Because of high levels in the urine of male domestic cats, this enzyme is also called cauxin (carboxylesterase-like urinary excreted protein). The enzyme functions in regulating the production of a pheromone precursor and may contribute to lipid and cholesterol transfer processes within male reproductive fluids. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	CES5A (Carboxylesterase 5A) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are the visual cycle I (vertebrates) and E2F transcription factor network. An important paralog of this gene is CES2.	Involved in the detoxification of xenobiotics and in the activation of ester and amide prodrugs.	diff
CES8	This gene encodes a member of the carboxylesterase large family. The family members are responsible for the hydrolysis or transesterification of various xenobiotics, such as cocaine and heroin, and endogenous substrates with ester, thioester, or amide bonds. They also participate in fatty acyl and cholesterol ester metabolism, and may play a role in the blood-brain barrier system. This gene, also called CES6, encodes a secreted enzyme, and may play a role in the detoxification of drugs and xenobiotics in neural and other tissues of the body and in the cerebrospinal fluid. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been reported, but the full-length nature and/or biological validity of some variants have not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	CES4A (Carboxylesterase 4A) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are the visual cycle I (vertebrates) and E2F transcription factor network. An important paralog of this gene is CES2.	Probable carboxylesterase.	diff
CEP70	empty	CEP70 (Centrosomal Protein 70kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic.	Plays a role in the organization of both preexisting and nascent microtubules in interphase cells. During mitosis, required for the organization and orientation of the mitotic spindle	same
CETN1	The protein encoded by this gene plays important roles in the determination of centrosome position and segregation, and in the process of microtubule severing. This protein is localized to the centrosome of interphase cells, and redistributes to the region of the spindle poles during mitosis, reflecting the dynamic behavior of the centrosome during the cell cycle. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2015]	CETN1 (Centrin, EF-Hand Protein, 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and microtubule binding. An important paralog of this gene is CETN2.	Plays a fundamental role in microtubule-organizing center structure and function	same
CEPT1	Cholinephosphotransferase catalyses the final step in the synthesis of phosphatidylcholine by the transfer of phosphocholine from CDP-choline to diacylglycerol. The synthesis of phosphatidylethanolamine by ethanolaminephosphotransferase occurs using an analogous reaction. This gene codes for a choline/ethanolaminephosphotransferase. The protein can synthesize either choline- or ethanolamine- containing phospholipids. Two alternatively spliced transcripts encoding the same isoform have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CEPT1 (Choline/Ethanolamine Phosphotransferase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include diacylglycerol cholinephosphotransferase activity and ethanolaminephosphotransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is EPT1.	Catalyzes both phosphatidylcholine and phosphatidylethanolamine biosynthesis from CDP-choline and CDP-ethanolamine, respectively. Involved in protein-dependent process of phospholipid transport to distribute phosphatidyl choline to the lumenal surface. Has a higher cholinephosphotransferase activity than ethanolaminephosphotransferase activity.	same
CFDP1	empty	CFDP1 (Craniofacial Development Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	May play a role during embryogenesis.	same
CFD	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the trypsin family of peptidases. The encoded protein is a component of the alternative complement pathway best known for its role in humoral suppression of infectious agents. This protein is also a serine protease that is secreted by adipocytes into the bloodstream. Finally, the encoded protein has a high level of expression in fat, suggesting a role for adipose tissue in immune system biology. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CFD (Complement Factor D (Adipsin)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CFD include complement factor d deficiency and recurrent neisseria infections due to factor d deficiency. Among its related pathways are Hemostasis and Hemostasis. GO annotations related to this gene include serine-type endopeptidase activity and serine-type peptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ELANE.	Factor D cleaves factor B when the latter is complexed with factor C3b, activating the C3bbb complex, which then becomes the C3 convertase of the alternate pathway. Its function is homologous to that of C1s in the classical pathway	same
CFC1B	empty	CFC1B (Cripto, FRL-1, Cryptic Family 1B) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CFC1.	empty	same
CERK	CERK converts ceramide to ceramide 1-phosphate (C1P), a sphingolipid metabolite. Both CERK and C1P have been implicated in various cellular processes, including proliferation, apoptosis, phagocytosis, and inflammation (Kim et al., 2006 [PubMed 16488390]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CERK (Ceramide Kinase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CERK include retinitis pigmentosa. Among its related pathways are Sphingolipid metabolism and Sphingolipid metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and NAD+ kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is SPHK2.	Catalyzes specifically the phosphorylation of ceramide to form ceramide 1-phosphate. Acts efficiently on natural and analog ceramides (C6, C8, C16 ceramides, and C8-dihydroceramide), to a lesser extent on C2-ceramide and C6-dihydroceramide, but not on other lipids, such as various sphingosines. Binds phosphoinositides.	same
CFHR1	This gene encodes a secreted protein belonging to the complement factor H protein family. It binds to Pseudomonas aeruginosa elongation factor Tuf together with plasminogen, which is proteolytically activated. It is proposed that Tuf acts as a virulence factor by acquiring host proteins to the pathogen surface, controlling complement, and facilitating tissue invasion. Mutations in this gene are associated with an increased risk of atypical hemolytic-uremic syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]	CFHR1 (Complement Factor H-Related 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CFHR1 include atypical hemolytic-uremic syndrome with anti-factor h antibodies and hemolytic uremic syndrome, atypical 1. An important paralog of this gene is F13B.	Involved in complement regulation. The dimerized forms have avidity for tissue-bound complement fragments and efficiently compete with the physiological complement inhibitor CFH. Can associate with lipoproteins and may play a role in lipid metabolism.	same
CES1	This gene encodes a member of the carboxylesterase large family. The family members are responsible for the hydrolysis or transesterification of various xenobiotics, such as cocaine and heroin, and endogenous substrates with ester, thioester, or amide bonds. They may participate in fatty acyl and cholesterol ester metabolism, and may play a role in the blood-brain barrier system. This enzyme is the major liver enzyme and functions in liver drug clearance. Mutations of this gene cause carboxylesterase 1 deficiency. Three transcript variants encoding three different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	CES1 (Carboxylesterase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CES1 include reye syndrome. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and the visual cycle I (vertebrates). GO annotations related to this gene include methylumbelliferyl-acetate deacetylase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CES2.	Involved in the detoxification of xenobiotics and in the activation of ester and amide prodrugs. Hydrolyzes aromatic and aliphatic esters, but has no catalytic activity toward amides or a fatty acyl-CoA ester. Hydrolyzes the methyl ester group of cocaine to form benzoylecgonine. Catalyzes the transesterification of cocaine to form cocaethylene. Displays fatty acid ethyl ester synthase activity, catalyzing the ethyl esterification of oleic acid to ethyloleate.	same
CES4	This gene is a member of the carboxylesterase (CES) gene family. The family members are responsible for the hydrolysis or transesterification of various xenobiotics, such as cocaine and heroin, and endogenous substrates with ester, thioester, or amide bonds. They may participate in fatty acyl and cholesterol ester metabolism, and may play a role in the blood-brain barrier system. This gene does not encode a protein and the sequence is similar to the CES1 gene, so represents a pseudogene of the CES1 gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	CES1P1 (Carboxylesterase 1 Pseudogene 1) is a Pseudogene.	Has no esterase activity.	diff
CFHR3	The protein encoded by this gene is a secreted protein, which belongs to the complement factor H-related protein family. It binds to heparin, and may be involved in complement regulation. Mutations in this gene are associated with decreased risk of age-related macular degeneration, and with an increased risk of atypical hemolytic-uremic syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]	CFHR3 (Complement Factor H-Related 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CFHR3 include cfhr3 and cfhr1-related atypical hemolytic-uremic syndrome and hemolytic uremic syndrome, atypical 1. Among its related pathways are Creation of C4 and C2 activators and Complement Pathway. An important paralog of this gene is F13B.	Might be involved in complement regulation	same
CFHR4	This gene is a member of the complement factor H (CFH) gene family, and encodes one of the 5 CFH-related (CFHR) proteins. These 5 genes are closely linked to the CFH gene on chromosome 1q31-q32. The CFHRs are secreted plasma proteins synthesized primarily by the hepatocytes, and composed of highly-related short consensus repeats (SCRs). This protein enhances the cofactor activity of CFH, and is involved in complement regulation. It can associate with lipoproteins and may play a role in lipid metabolism. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms (varying in the number of SCRs) have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]	CFHR4 (Complement Factor H-Related 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CFHR4 include kuhnt-junius degeneration. GO annotations related to this gene include lipid transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is F13B.	Involved in complement regulation. Can associate with lipoproteins and may play a role in lipid metabolism	same
CETP	The protein encoded by this gene is found in plasma, where it is involved in the transfer of cholesteryl ester from high density lipoprotein (HDL) to other lipoproteins. Defects in this gene are a cause of hyperalphalipoproteinemia 1 (HALP1). Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2013]	CETP (Cholesteryl Ester Transfer Protein, Plasma) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CETP include hyperalphalipoproteinemia and cetp-related hyperalphalipoproteinemia. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include lipid binding and lipid transporter activity.	Involved in the transfer of neutral lipids, including cholesteryl ester and triglyceride, among lipoprotein particles. Allows the net movement of cholesteryl ester from high density lipoproteins/HDL to triglyceride-rich very low density lipoproteins/VLDL, and the equimolar transport of triglyceride from VLDL to HDL (PubMed:3600759, PubMed:24293641). Regulates the reverse cholesterol transport, by which excess cholesterol is removed from peripheral tissues and returned to the liver for elimination (PubMed:17237796).	same
CETN2	Caltractin belongs to a family of calcium-binding proteins and is a structural component of the centrosome. The high level of conservation from algae to humans and its association with the centrosome suggested that caltractin plays a fundamental role in the structure and function of the microtubule-organizing center, possibly required for the proper duplication and segregation of the centrosome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CETN2 (Centrin, EF-Hand Protein, 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CETN2 include xeroderma pigmentosum, group c. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and microtubule binding. An important paralog of this gene is CETN1.	Plays a fundamental role in microtubule organizing center structure and function. Required for centriole duplication and correct spindle formation. Has a role in regulating cytokinesis and genome stability via cooperation with CALM1 and CCP110	same
CETN3	The protein encoded by this gene contains four EF-hand calcium binding domains, and is a member of the centrin protein family. Centrins are evolutionarily conserved proteins similar to the CDC31 protein of S. cerevisiae. Yeast CDC31 is located at the centrosome of interphase and mitotic cells, where it plays a fundamental role in centrosome duplication and separation. Multiple forms of the proteins similar to the yeast centrin have been identified in human and other mammalian cells, some of which have been shown to be associated with centrosome fractions. This protein appears to be one of the most abundant centrins associated with centrosome, which suggests a similar function to its yeast counterpart. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]	CETN3 (Centrin, EF-Hand Protein, 3) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and G-protein beta/gamma-subunit complex binding. An important paralog of this gene is CETN2.	Plays a fundamental role in microtubule-organizing center structure and function	same
CETN4P	Centrins are members of the calcium-binding EF-hand protein superfamily and accumulate in centrosomes. This gene has been inactivated by mutation and is nonfunctional in humans. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]	CETN4P (Centrin EF-Hand Protein 4, Pseudogene) is a Pseudogene.	empty	same
CFI	This gene encodes a serine proteinase that is essential for regulating the complement cascade. The encoded preproprotein is cleaved to produce both heavy and light chains, which are linked by disulfide bonds to form a heterodimeric glycoprotein. This heterodimer can cleave and inactivate the complement components C4b and C3b, and it prevents the assembly of the C3 and C5 convertase enzymes. Defects in this gene cause complement factor I deficiency, an autosomal recessive disease associated with a susceptibility to pyogenic infections. Mutations in this gene have been associated with a predisposition to atypical hemolytic uraemic syndrome, a disease characterized by acute renal failure, microangiopathic hemolytic anemia and thrombocytopenia. Primary glomerulonephritis with immmune deposits is another condition associated with mutation of this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CFI (Complement Factor I) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CFI include complement factor i deficiency and hemolytic uremic syndrome, atypical 3. Among its related pathways are Complement and coagulation cascades and Staphylococcus aureus infection. GO annotations related to this gene include serine-type endopeptidase activity and scavenger receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CORIN.	Responsible for cleaving the alpha-chains of C4b and C3b in the presence of the cofactors C4-binding protein and factor H respectively	same
CFHR5	This gene is a member of a small complement factor H (CFH) gene cluster on chromosome 1. Each member of this gene family contains multiple short consensus repeats (SCRs) typical of regulators of complement activation. The protein encoded by this gene has nine SCRs with the first two repeats having heparin binding properties, a region within repeats 5-7 having heparin binding and C reactive protein binding properties, and the C-terminal repeats being similar to a complement component 3 b (C3b) binding domain. This protein co-localizes with C3, binds C3b in a dose-dependent manner, and is recruited to tissues damaged by C-reactive protein. Allelic variations in this gene have been associated, but not causally linked, with two different forms of kidney disease: membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis type II (MPGNII) and hemolytic uraemic syndrome (HUS). [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]	CFHR5 (Complement Factor H-Related 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CFHR5 include nephropathy due to cfhr5 deficiency and membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis. An important paralog of this gene is F13B.	Involved in complement regulation. The dimerized forms have avidity for tissue-bound complement fragments and efficiently compete with the physiological complement inhibitor CFH.	same
CFL1	The protein encoded by this gene can polymerize and depolymerize F-actin and G-actin in a pH-dependent manner. Increased phosphorylation of this protein by LIM kinase aids in Rho-induced reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton. Cofilin is a widely distributed intracellular actin-modulating protein that binds and depolymerizes filamentous F-actin and inhibits the polymerization of monomeric G-actin in a pH-dependent manner. It is involved in the translocation of actin-cofilin complex from cytoplasm to nucleus.[supplied by OMIM, Apr 2004]	CFL1 (Cofilin 1 (Non-Muscle)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CFL1 include corticobasal degeneration and smith-lemli-opitz syndrome. Among its related pathways are Regulation of actin cytoskeleton and Regulation of actin cytoskeleton. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding. An important paralog of this gene is DSTN.	Binds to F-actin and exhibits pH-sensitive F-actin depolymerizing activity. Regulates actin cytoskeleton dynamics. Important for normal progress through mitosis and normal cytokinesis. Plays a role in the regulation of cell morphology and cytoskeletal organization. Required for the up-regulation of atypical chemokine receptor ACKR2 from endosomal compartment to cell membrane, increasing its efficiency in chemokine uptake and degradation.	same
CFLAR	The protein encoded by this gene is a regulator of apoptosis and is structurally similar to caspase-8. However, the encoded protein lacks caspase activity and appears to be itself cleaved into two peptides by caspase-8. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene, and partial evidence for several more variants exists. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]	CFLAR (CASP8 And FADD-Like Apoptosis Regulator) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CFLAR include cadasil and cervical intraepithelial neoplasia. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and Apoptotic Pathways in Synovial Fibroblasts. GO annotations related to this gene include protease binding and enzyme activator activity.	Apoptosis regulator protein which may function as a crucial link between cell survival and cell death pathways in mammalian cells. Acts as an inhibitor of TNFRSF6 mediated apoptosis. A proteolytic fragment (p43) is likely retained in the death-inducing signaling complex (DISC) thereby blocking further recruitment and processing of caspase-8 at the complex. Full length and shorter isoforms have been shown either to induce apoptosis or to reduce TNFRSF-triggered apoptosis. Lacks enzymatic (caspase) activity.	same
CFH	This gene is a member of the Regulator of Complement Activation (RCA) gene cluster and encodes a protein with twenty short consensus repeat (SCR) domains. This protein is secreted into the bloodstream and has an essential role in the regulation of complement activation, restricting this innate defense mechanism to microbial infections. Mutations in this gene have been associated with hemolytic-uremic syndrome (HUS) and chronic hypocomplementemic nephropathy. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]	CFH (Complement Factor H) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CFH include hemolytic uremic syndrome, atypical 1 and complement factor h deficiency. Among its related pathways are Pathways in cancer and Complement and coagulation cascades. GO annotations related to this gene include heparin binding and heparan sulfate proteoglycan binding. An important paralog of this gene is F13B.	Factor H functions as a cofactor in the inactivation of C3b by factor I and also increases the rate of dissociation of the C3bBb complex (C3 convertase) and the (C3b)NBB complex (C5 convertase) in the alternative complement pathway	same
CFL2	This gene encodes an intracellular protein that is involved in the regulation of actin-filament dynamics. This protein is a major component of intranuclear and cytoplasmic actin rods. It can bind G- and F-actin in a 1:1 ratio of cofilin to actin, and it reversibly controls actin polymerization and depolymerization in a pH-dependent manner. Mutations in this gene cause nemaline myopathy type 7, a form of congenital myopathy. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009]	CFL2 (Cofilin 2 (Muscle)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CFL2 include nemaline myopathy 7, autosomal recessive and cfl2-related nemaline myopathy. Among its related pathways are Regulation of actin cytoskeleton and Regulation of actin cytoskeleton. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding. An important paralog of this gene is DSTN.	Controls reversibly actin polymerization and depolymerization in a pH-sensitive manner. It has the ability to bind G- and F-actin in a 1:1 ratio of cofilin to actin. It is the major component of intranuclear and cytoplasmic actin rods (By similarity).	same
CG030	empty	N4BP2L2-IT2 (N4BPL2 Intronic Transcript 2) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
CFTR	This gene encodes a member of the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter superfamily. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the MRP subfamily that is involved in multi-drug resistance. The encoded protein functions as a chloride channel and controls the regulation of other transport pathways. Mutations in this gene are associated with the autosomal recessive disorders cystic fibrosis and congenital bilateral aplasia of the vas deferens. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described, many of which result from mutations in this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CFTR (Cystic Fibrosis Transmembrane Conductance Regulator (ATP-Binding Cassette Sub-Family C, Member 7)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CFTR include cystic fibrosis and idiopathic bronchiectasis. Among its related pathways are NO-dependent CFTR activation (normal and CF) and Immune response CCR3 signaling in eosinophils. GO annotations related to this gene include enzyme binding and chloride channel activity.	Involved in the transport of chloride ions. May regulate bicarbonate secretion and salvage in epithelial cells by regulating the SLC4A7 transporter. Can inhibit the chloride channel activity of ANO1. Plays a role in the chloride and bicarbonate homeostasis during sperm epididymal maturation and capacitation.	same
CFB	This gene encodes complement factor B, a component of the alternative pathway of complement activation. Factor B circulates in the blood as a single chain polypeptide. Upon activation of the alternative pathway, it is cleaved by complement factor D yielding the noncatalytic chain Ba and the catalytic subunit Bb. The active subunit Bb is a serine protease which associates with C3b to form the alternative pathway C3 convertase. Bb is involved in the proliferation of preactivated B lymphocytes, while Ba inhibits their proliferation. This gene localizes to the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class III region on chromosome 6. This cluster includes several genes involved in regulation of the immune reaction. Polymorphisms in this gene are associated with a reduced risk of age-related macular degeneration. The polyadenylation site of this gene is 421 bp from the 5' end of the gene for complement component 2. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CFB (Complement Factor B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CFB include hemolytic uremic syndrome, atypical 4 and complement factor b deficiency. Among its related pathways are Complement and coagulation cascades and Staphylococcus aureus infection. GO annotations related to this gene include serine-type endopeptidase activity and complement binding. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000244255.	Factor B which is part of the alternate pathway of the complement system is cleaved by factor D into 2 fragments: Ba and Bb. Bb, a serine protease, then combines with complement factor 3b to generate the C3 or C5 convertase. It has also been implicated in proliferation and differentiation of preactivated B-lymphocytes, rapid spreading of peripheral blood monocytes, stimulation of lymphocyte blastogenesis and lysis of erythrocytes. Ba inhibits the proliferation of preactivated B-lymphocytes	same
CFHR2	empty	CFHR2 (Complement Factor H-Related 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CFHR2 include dense deposit disease. An important paralog of this gene is F13B.	Involved in complement regulation. The dimerized forms have avidity for tissue-bound complement fragments and efficiently compete with the physiological complement inhibitor CFH. Can associate with lipoproteins and may play a role in lipid metabolism.	same
CGB7	This gene is a member of the glycoprotein hormone beta chain family and encodes the beta 7 subunit of chorionic gonadotropin (CG). Glycoprotein hormones are heterodimers consisting of a common alpha subunit and an unique beta subunit which confers biological specificity. CG is produced by the trophoblastic cells of the placenta and stimulates the ovaries to synthesize the steroids that are essential for the maintenance of pregnancy. The beta subunit of CG is encoded by 6 genes which are arranged in tandem and inverted pairs on chromosome 19q13.3 and contiguous with the luteinizing hormone beta subunit gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CGB7 (Chorionic Gonadotropin, Beta Polypeptide 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CGB7 include gestational choriocarcinoma and nonseminomatous germ cell tumor. An important paralog of this gene is TSHB.	Stimulates the ovaries to synthesize the steroids that are essential for the maintenance of pregnancy	same
CGA	The four human glycoprotein hormones chorionic gonadotropin (CG), luteinizing hormone (LH), follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), and thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) are dimers consisting of alpha and beta subunits that are associated noncovalently. The alpha subunits of these hormones are identical, however, their beta chains are unique and confer biological specificity. The protein encoded by this gene is the alpha subunit and belongs to the glycoprotein hormones alpha chain family. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]	CGA (Glycoprotein Hormones, Alpha Polypeptide) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CGA include anovulation and pineal region germinoma. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include hormone activity.	empty	same
CFLP1	empty	CFL1P1 (Cofilin 1 (Non-Muscle) Pseudogene 1) is a Pseudogene.	empty	diff
CGGBP1	CGGBP1 influences expression of the FMR1 gene (MIM 309550), which is associated with the fragile X mental retardation syndrome (MIM 300624), by specifically interacting with the 5-prime (CGG)n-3-prime repeat in its 5-prime UTR.[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CGGBP1 (CGG Triplet Repeat Binding Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include double-stranded DNA binding.	Binds to nonmethylated 5-d(CGG)(n)-3 trinucleotide repeats in the FMR1 promoter. May play a role in regulating FMR1 promoter.	same
CGNL1	This gene encodes a member of the cingulin family. The encoded protein localizes to both adherens and tight cell-cell junctions and mediates junction assembly and maintenance by regulating the activity of the small GTPases RhoA and Rac1. Heterozygous chromosomal rearrangements resulting in association of the promoter for this gene with the aromatase gene are a cause of aromatase excess syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]	CGNL1 (Cingulin-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CGNL1 include aromatase excess syndrome and estrogen excess. GO annotations related to this gene include motor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CGN.	May be involved in anchoring the apical junctional complex, especially tight junctions, to actin-based cytoskeletons.	same
CGN	empty	CGN (Cingulin) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding and motor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CGNL1.	Probably plays a role in the formation and regulation of the tight junction (TJ) paracellular permeability barrier	same
CFP	This gene encodes a plasma glycoprotein that positively regulates the alternative complement pathway of the innate immune system. This protein binds to many microbial surfaces and apoptotic cells and stabilizes the C3- and C5-convertase enzyme complexes in a feedback loop that ultimately leads to formation of the membrane attack complex and lysis of the target cell. Mutations in this gene result in two forms of properdin deficiency, which results in high susceptibility to meningococcal infections. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]	CFP (Complement Factor Properdin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CFP include properdin deficiency, x-linked and properdin deficiency. Among its related pathways are Influenza A and Complement Pathway. An important paralog of this gene is UNC5D.	A positive regulator of the alternate pathway of complement. It binds to and stabilizes the C3- and C5-convertase enzyme complexes.	same
CH25H	This is an intronless gene that is involved in cholesterol and lipid metabolism. The encoded protein is a membrane protein and contains clusters of histidine residues essential for catalytic activity. Unlike most other sterol hydroxylases, this enzyme is a member of a small family of enzymes that utilize diiron cofactors to catalyze the hydroxylation of hydrophobic substrates. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CH25H (Cholesterol 25-Hydroxylase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CH25H include alzheimer disease. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include iron ion binding and cholesterol 25-hydroxylase activity. An important paralog of this gene is FAXDC2.	Catalyzes the formation of 25-hydroxycholesterol from cholesterol, leading to repress cholesterol biosynthetic enzymes. May play an important role in regulating lipid metabolism by synthesizing a corepressor that blocks sterol regulatory element binding protein (SREBP) processing. In testis, production of 25-hydroxycholesterol by macrophages may play a role in Leydig cell differentiation.	same
CGB5	This gene is a member of the glycoprotein hormone beta chain family and encodes the beta 5 subunit of chorionic gonadotropin (CG). Glycoprotein hormones are heterodimers consisting of a common alpha subunit and an unique beta subunit which confers biological specificity. CG is produced by the trophoblastic cells of the placenta and stimulates the ovaries to synthesize the steroids that are essential for the maintenance of pregnancy. The beta subunit of CG is encoded by 6 genes which are arranged in tandem and inverted pairs on chromosome 19q13.3 and contiguous with the luteinizing hormone beta subunit gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CGB5 (Chorionic Gonadotropin, Beta Polypeptide 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CGB5 include corpus luteum cyst and malignant sertoli cell tumor. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Peptide hormone metabolism. An important paralog of this gene is TSHB.	Stimulates the ovaries to synthesize the steroids that are essential for the maintenance of pregnancy	same
CGRRF1	empty	CGRRF1 (Cell Growth Regulator With Ring Finger Domain 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	Able to inhibit growth in several cell lines.	same
CHAF1A	Chromatin assembly factor I (CAF1) is a nuclear complex consisting of p50, p60 (CHAF1B; MIM 601245), and p150 (CHAF1A) subunits that assembles histone octamers onto replicating DNA in vitro (Kaufman et al., 1995 [PubMed 7600578]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CHAF1A (Chromatin Assembly Factor 1, Subunit A (P150)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Chromatin Regulation / Acetylation. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and unfolded protein binding.	Core component of the CAF-1 complex, a complex thought to mediate chromatin assembly in DNA replication and DNA repair. Assembles histone octamers onto replicating DNA in vitro. CAF-1 performs the first step of the nucleosome assembly process, bringing newly synthesized histones H3 and H4 to replicating DNA; histones H2A/H2B can bind to this chromatin precursor subsequent to DNA replication to complete the histone octamer. CHAF1A binds to histones H3 and H4. It may play a role in heterochromatin maintenance in proliferating cells by bringing newly synthesized cbx proteins to heterochromatic DNA replication foci (By similarity).	same
CHAT	This gene encodes an enzyme which catalyzes the biosynthesis of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine. This gene product is a characteristic feature of cholinergic neurons, and changes in these neurons may explain some of the symptoms of Alzheimer's disease. Polymorphisms in this gene have been associated with Alzheimer's disease and mild cognitive impairment. Mutations in this gene are associated with congenital myasthenic syndrome associated with episodic apnea. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene, and some of these variants have been shown to encode more than one isoform. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	CHAT (Choline O-Acetyltransferase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHAT include myasthenic syndrome, congenital, associated with episodic apnea and congenital myasthenic syndrome with episodic apnea. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include choline O-acetyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CRAT.	Catalyzes the reversible synthesis of acetylcholine (ACh) from acetyl CoA and choline at cholinergic synapses	same
CHCHD10	This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein that is enriched at cristae junctions in the intermembrane space. It may play a role in cristae morphology maintenance or oxidative phosphorylation. Mutations in this gene cause frontotemporal dementia and/or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-2. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 7 and 19. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2014]	CHCHD10 (Coiled-Coil-Helix-Coiled-Coil-Helix Domain Containing 10) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHCHD10 include frontotemporal dementia and/or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 2 and myopathy, isolated mitochondrial, autosomal dominant. An important paralog of this gene is CHCHD2.	May be involved in the maintenance of mitochondrial organization and mitochondrial cristae structure.	same
CHAF1B	Chromatin assembly factor I (CAF-I) is required for the assembly of histone octamers onto newly-replicated DNA. CAF-I is composed of three protein subunits, p50, p60, and p150. The protein encoded by this gene corresponds to the p60 subunit and is required for chromatin assembly after replication. The encoded protein is differentially phosphorylated in a cell cycle-dependent manner. In addition, it is normally found in the nucleus except during mitosis, when it is released into the cytoplasm. This protein is a member of the WD-repeat HIR1 family and may also be involved in DNA repair. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CHAF1B (Chromatin Assembly Factor 1, Subunit B (P60)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include chromatin binding and histone binding.	Complex that is thought to mediate chromatin assembly in DNA replication and DNA repair. Assembles histone octamers onto replicating DNA in vitro. CAF-1 performs the first step of the nucleosome assembly process, bringing newly synthesized histones H3 and H4 to replicating DNA; histones H2A/H2B can bind to this chromatin precursor subsequent to DNA replication to complete the histone octamer.	same
CHAC1	empty	CHAC1 (ChaC Glutathione-Specific Gamma-Glutamylcyclotransferase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include Notch binding. An important paralog of this gene is CHAC2.	Catalyzes the cleavage glutathione into 5-oxoproline and a Cys-Gly dipeptide. Acts specifically on glutathione, but not on other gamma-glutamyl peptides. Glutathione depletion is an important factor for apoptosis initiation and execution (PubMed:23070364). Acts as a pro-apoptotic component of the unfolded protein response pathway by mediating the pro-apoptotic effects of the ATF4-ATF3-DDIT3/CHOP cascade (PubMed:19109178). Negative regulator of Notch signaling pathway involved in embryonic neurogenesis: acts by inhibiting Notch cleavage by furin, maintaining Notch in an immature inactive form, thereby promoting neurogenesis in embryos (PubMed:22445366).	same
CHADL	empty	CHADL (Chondroadherin-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is LRRTM2.	Potential negative modulator of chondrocyte differentiation. Inhibits collagen fibrillogenesis in vitro. May influence chondrocytes differentiation by acting on its cellular collagenous microenvironment.	same
CHCHD1	empty	CHCHD1 (Coiled-Coil-Helix-Coiled-Coil-Helix Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CHCHD2	empty	CHCHD2 (Coiled-Coil-Helix-Coiled-Coil-Helix Domain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CHCHD10.	Transcription factor. Binds to the oxygen responsive element of COX4I2 and activates its transcription under hypoxia conditions (4% oxygen), as well as normoxia conditions (20% oxygen) (PubMed:23303788).	same
CGB1	The beta subunit of chorionic gonadotropin (CGB) is encoded by six highly homologous and structurally similar genes that are arranged in tandem and inverted pairs on chromosome 19q13.3, and contiguous with the luteinizing hormone beta (LHB) subunit gene. The CGB genes are primarily distinguished by differences in the 5' untranscribed region. This gene was originally thought to be one of the two pseudogenes (CGB1 and CGB2) of CGB subunit, however, detection of CGB1 and CGB2 transcripts in vivo, and their presence on the polysomes, suggested that these transcripts are translated. To date, a protein product corresponding to CGB1 has not been isolated. The deduced sequence of the hypothetical protein of 132 aa does not share any similarity with that of functional CGB subunits (PMID:8954017). However, a 155 aa protein, translated from a different frame, is about the same size, and shares 98% identity with other CGB subunits. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CGB1 (Chorionic Gonadotropin, Beta Polypeptide 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include hormone activity. An important paralog of this gene is TSHB.	empty	same
CHAD	Chondroadherin is a cartilage matrix protein thought to mediate adhesion of isolated chondrocytes. The protein contains 11 leucine-rich repeats flanked by cysteine-rich regions. The chondroadherin messenger RNA is present in chondrocytes at all ages. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CHAD (Chondroadherin) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Focal adhesion. GO annotations related to this gene include extracellular matrix structural constituent. An important paralog of this gene is LRRTM2.	Promotes attachment of chondrocytes, fibroblasts, and osteoblasts. This binding is mediated (at least for chondrocytes and fibroblasts) by the integrin alpha(2)beta(1). May play an important role in the regulation of chondrocyte growth and proliferation (By similarity).	same
CGB2	The beta subunit of chorionic gonadotropin (CGB) is encoded by six highly homologous and structurally similar genes that are arranged in tandem and inverted pairs on chromosome 19q13.3, and contiguous with the luteinizing hormone beta (LHB) subunit gene. The CGB genes are primarily distinguished by differences in the 5' untranscribed region. This gene was originally thought to be one of the two pseudogenes (CGB1 and CGB2) of CGB subunit, however, detection of CGB1 and CGB2 transcripts in vivo, and their presence on the polysomes, suggested that these transcripts are translated. To date, a protein product corresponding to CGB2 has not been isolated. The deduced sequence of the hypothetical protein of 132 aa does not share any similarity with that of functional CGB subunits (PMID:8954017). However, a 163 aa protein, translated from a different frame, is about the same size, and shares 98% identity with other CGB subunits. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CGB2 (Chorionic Gonadotropin, Beta Polypeptide 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include hormone activity. An important paralog of this gene is TSHB.	empty	same
CGB8	This gene is a member of the glycoprotein hormone beta chain family and encodes the beta 8 subunit of chorionic gonadotropin (CG). Glycoprotein hormones are heterodimers consisting of a common alpha subunit and an unique beta subunit which confers biological specificity. CG is produced by the trophoblastic cells of the placenta and stimulates the ovaries to synthesize the steroids that are essential for the maintenance of pregnancy. The beta subunit of CG is encoded by 6 genes which are arranged in tandem and inverted pairs on chromosome 19q13.3 and contiguous with the luteinizing hormone beta subunit gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CGB8 (Chorionic Gonadotropin, Beta Polypeptide 8) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CGB8 include cryptococcosis. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Peptide hormone metabolism. An important paralog of this gene is TSHB.	Stimulates the ovaries to synthesize the steroids that are essential for the maintenance of pregnancy	same
CGB	This gene is a member of the glycoprotein hormone beta chain family and encodes the beta 3 subunit of chorionic gonadotropin (CG). Glycoprotein hormones are heterodimers consisting of a common alpha subunit and an unique beta subunit which confers biological specificity. CG is produced by the trophoblastic cells of the placenta and stimulates the ovaries to synthesize the steroids that are essential for the maintenance of pregnancy. The beta subunit of CG is encoded by 6 genes which are arranged in tandem and inverted pairs on chromosome 19q13.3 and contiguous with the luteinizing hormone beta subunit gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CGB (Chorionic Gonadotropin, Beta Polypeptide) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CGB include sarcomatoid renal cell carcinoma and ectopic pregnancy. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Peptide hormone metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include hormone activity. An important paralog of this gene is TSHB.	Stimulates the ovaries to synthesize the steroids that are essential for the maintenance of pregnancy	same
CGREF1	empty	CGREF1 (Cell Growth Regulator With EF-Hand Domain 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding.	Mediates cell-cell adhesion in a calcium-dependent manner (By similarity). Able to inhibit growth in several cell lines.	same
CHD1L	This gene encodes a DNA helicase protein involved in DNA repair. The protein converts ATP to add poly(ADP-ribose) as it regulates chromatin relaxation following DNA damage. Several alternatively spliced transcripts variants have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]	CHD1L (Chromodomain Helicase DNA Binding Protein 1-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleotide binding and ATP-dependent DNA helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is SMARCA1.	DNA helicase which plays a role in chromatin-remodeling following DNA damage. Targeted to sites of DNA damage through interaction with poly(ADP-ribose) and functions to regulate chromatin during DNA repair. Able to catalyze nucleosome sliding in an ATP-dependent manner. Helicase activity is strongly stimulated upon poly(ADP-ribose)-binding.	same
CHCHD5	empty	CHCHD5 (Coiled-Coil-Helix-Coiled-Coil-Helix Domain Containing 5) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CHCHD8	empty	COA4 (Cytochrome C Oxidase Assembly Factor 4 Homolog (S. Cerevisiae)) is a Protein Coding gene.	Putative COX assembly factor.	diff
CHAC2	empty	CHAC2 (ChaC, Cation Transport Regulator Homolog 2 (E. Coli)) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CHAC1.	Catalyzes the cleavage glutathione into 5-oxoproline and a Cys-Gly dipeptide. Acts specifically on glutathione, but not on other gamma-glutamyl peptides.	same
CHD5	This gene encodes a member of the chromodomain helicase DNA-binding protein family. Members of this family are characterized by a chromodomain, a helicase ATP-binding domain and an additional functional domain. This gene encodes a neuron-specific protein that may function in chromatin remodeling and gene transcription. This gene is a potential tumor suppressor gene that may play a role in the development of neuroblastoma. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]	CHD5 (Chromodomain Helicase DNA Binding Protein 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHD5 include neuroblastoma. GO annotations related to this gene include ATP-dependent helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHD1.	Chromatin-remodeling protein that binds DNA through histones and regulates gene transcription. May specifically recognize and bind trimethylated Lys-27 (H3K27me3) and non-methylated Lys-4 of histone H3. Plays a role in the development of the nervous system by activating the expression of genes promoting neuron terminal differentiation. In parallel, it may also positively regulate the trimethylation of histone H3 at Lys-27 thereby specifically repressing genes that promote the differentiation into non-neuronal cell lineages. Tumor suppressor, it regulates the expression of genes involved in cell proliferation and differentiation. Downstream activated genes may include CDKN2A that positively regulates the p53/TP53 pathway, which in turn, prevents cell proliferation. In spermatogenesis, it probably regulates histone hyperacetylation and the replacement of histones by transition proteins in chromatin, a crucial step in the condensation of spermatid chromatin and the production of functional spermatozoa.	same
CHD6	This gene encodes a member of the SNF2/RAD54 helicase protein family. The encoded protein contains two chromodomains, a helicase domain, and an ATPase domain. Several multi-subunit protein complexes remodel chromatin to allow patterns of cell type-specific gene expression, and the encoded protein is thought to be a core member of one or more of these chromatin remodeling complexes. The encoded protein may function as a transcriptional repressor and is involved in the cellular repression of influenza virus replication. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]	CHD6 (Chromodomain Helicase DNA Binding Protein 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHD6 include pitt-hopkins syndrome and influenza. GO annotations related to this gene include chromatin binding and ATP-dependent helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHD1.	Probable chromatin-remodeling protein with a DNA-dependent ATPase activity. May play a role in transcription regulation, activating for instance, the transcription of specific genes in response to oxidative stress through interaction with NFE2L2.	same
CHCHD6	empty	CHCHD6 (Coiled-Coil-Helix-Coiled-Coil-Helix Domain Containing 6) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CHCHD3.	Component of the MICOS complex, a large protein complex of the mitochondrial inner membrane that plays crucial roles in the maintenance of crista junctions, inner membrane architecture, and formation of contact sites to the outer membrane.	same
CHD2	The CHD family of proteins is characterized by the presence of chromo (chromatin organization modifier) domains and SNF2-related helicase/ATPase domains. CHD genes alter gene expression possibly by modification of chromatin structure thus altering access of the transcriptional apparatus to its chromosomal DNA template. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CHD2 (Chromodomain Helicase DNA Binding Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHD2 include epileptic encephalopathy, childhood-onset and myoclonic astatic epilepsy. Among its related pathways are Chromatin Regulation / Acetylation. GO annotations related to this gene include ATP-dependent DNA helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHD1.	DNA-binding helicase that specifically binds to the promoter of target genes, leading to chromatin remodeling, possibly by promoting deposition of histone H3.3. Involved in myogenesis via interaction with MYOD1: binds to myogenic gene regulatory sequences and mediates incorporation of histone H3.3 prior to the onset of myogenic gene expression, promoting their expression (By similarity).	same
CHD3	This gene encodes a member of the CHD family of proteins which are characterized by the presence of chromo (chromatin organization modifier) domains and SNF2-related helicase/ATPase domains. This protein is one of the components of a histone deacetylase complex referred to as the Mi-2/NuRD complex which participates in the remodeling of chromatin by deacetylating histones. Chromatin remodeling is essential for many processes including transcription. Autoantibodies against this protein are found in a subset of patients with dermatomyositis. Three alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CHD3 (Chromodomain Helicase DNA Binding Protein 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHD3 include dermatomyositis. Among its related pathways are Development NOTCH1-mediated pathway for NF-KB activity modulation and Gene Expression. GO annotations related to this gene include helicase activity and ATP-dependent DNA helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHD1.	Component of the histone deacetylase NuRD complex which participates in the remodeling of chromatin by deacetylating histones. Required for anchoring centrosomal pericentrin in both interphase and mitosis, for spindle organization and centrosome integrity.	same
CHD4	The product of this gene belongs to the SNF2/RAD54 helicase family. It represents the main component of the nucleosome remodeling and deacetylase complex and plays an important role in epigenetic transcriptional repression. Patients with dermatomyositis develop antibodies against this protein. Somatic mutations in this gene are associated with serous endometrial tumors. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]	CHD4 (Chromodomain Helicase DNA Binding Protein 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHD4 include right bundle branch block. Among its related pathways are Development NOTCH1-mediated pathway for NF-KB activity modulation and Gene Expression. GO annotations related to this gene include ATP-dependent DNA helicase activity and RNA polymerase II repressing transcription factor binding. An important paralog of this gene is CHD1.	Component of the histone deacetylase NuRD complex which participates in the remodeling of chromatin by deacetylating histones.	same
CHCHD3	empty	CHCHD3 (Coiled-Coil-Helix-Coiled-Coil-Helix Domain Containing 3) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include phosphatase binding and RNA polymerase II transcription regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity involved in negative regulation of transcription. An important paralog of this gene is CHCHD6.	Component of the MICOS complex, a large protein complex of the mitochondrial inner membrane that plays crucial roles in the maintenance of crista junctions, inner membrane architecture, and formation of contact sites to the outer membrane. Has also been shown to function as a transcription factor which binds to the BAG1 promoter and represses BAG1 transcription.	same
CHCHD4	CHCHD4, a component of human mitochondria, belongs to a protein family whose members share 6 highly conserved cysteine residues constituting a -CXC-CX(9)C-CX(9)C- motif in the C terminus (Hofmann et al., 2005 [PubMed 16185709]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CHCHD4 (Coiled-Coil-Helix-Coiled-Coil-Helix Domain Containing 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Mitochondrial Protein Import. GO annotations related to this gene include protein disulfide oxidoreductase activity.	Functions as chaperone and catalyzes the formation of disulfide bonds in substrate proteins, such as COX17. Required for the import and folding of small cysteine-containing proteins (small Tim) in the mitochondrial intermembrane space (IMS). Precursor proteins to be imported into the IMS are translocated in their reduced form into the mitochondria. The oxidized form of CHCHD4/MIA40 forms a transient intermolecular disulfide bridge with the reduced precursor protein, resulting in oxidation of the precursor protein that now contains an intramolecular disulfide bond and is able to undergo folding in the IMS. Reduced CHCHD4/MIA40 is then reoxidized by GFER/ERV1 via a disulfide relay system.	same
CHEK1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Ser/Thr protein kinase family. It is required for checkpoint mediated cell cycle arrest in response to DNA damage or the presence of unreplicated DNA. This protein acts to integrate signals from ATM and ATR, two cell cycle proteins involved in DNA damage responses, that also associate with chromatin in meiotic prophase I. Phosphorylation of CDC25A protein phosphatase by this protein is required for cells to delay cell cycle progression in response to double-strand DNA breaks. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]	CHEK1 (Checkpoint Kinase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHEK1 include hypoxia. Among its related pathways are PI-3K cascade and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and histone kinase activity (H3-T11 specific).	Serine/threonine-protein kinase which is required for checkpoint-mediated cell cycle arrest and activation of DNA repair in response to the presence of DNA damage or unreplicated DNA. May also negatively regulate cell cycle progression during unperturbed cell cycles. This regulation is achieved by a number of mechanisms that together help to preserve the integrity of the genome. Recognizes the substrate consensus sequence [R-X-X-S/T]. Binds to and phosphorylates CDC25A, CDC25B and CDC25C. Phosphorylation of CDC25A at Ser-178 and Thr-507 and phosphorylation of CDC25C at Ser-216 creates binding sites for 14-3-3 proteins which inhibit CDC25A and CDC25C. Phosphorylation of CDC25A at Ser-76, Ser-124, Ser-178, Ser-279 and Ser-293 promotes proteolysis of CDC25A. Phosphorylation of CDC25A at Ser-76 primes the protein for subsequent phosphorylation at Ser-79, Ser-82 and Ser-88 by NEK11, which is required for polyubiquitination and degradation of CDCD25A. Inhibition of CDC25 leads to increased inhibitory tyrosine phosphorylation of CDK-cyclin complexes and blocks cell cycle progression. Also phosphorylates NEK6. Binds to and phosphorylates RAD51 at Thr-309, which promotes the release of RAD51 from BRCA2 and enhances the association of RAD51 with chromatin, thereby promoting DNA repair by homologous recombination. Phosphorylates multiple sites within the C-terminus of TP53, which promotes activation of TP53 by acetylation and promotes cell cycle arrest and suppression of cellular proliferation. Also promotes repair of DNA cross-links through phosphorylation of FANCE. Binds to and phosphorylates TLK1 at Ser-743, which prevents the TLK1-dependent phosphorylation of the chromatin assembly factor ASF1A. This may enhance chromatin assembly both in the presence or absence of DNA damage. May also play a role in replication fork maintenance through regulation of PCNA. May regulate the transcription of genes that regulate cell-cycle progression through the phosphorylation of histones. Phosphorylates histone H3.1 (to form H3T11ph), which leads to epigenetic inhibition of a subset of genes. May also phosphorylate RB1 to promote its interaction with the E2F family of transcription factors and subsequent cell cycle arrest	same
CHD9	empty	CHD9 (Chromodomain Helicase DNA Binding Protein 9) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are L1CAM interactions and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHD1.	Acts as a transcriptional coactivator for PPARA and possibly other nuclear receptors. Proposed to be a ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling protein. Has DNA-dependent ATPase activity and binds to A/T-rich DNA. Associates with A/T-rich regulatory regions in promoters of genes that participate in the differentiation of progenitors during osteogenesis (By similarity).	same
CHD1	The CHD family of proteins is characterized by the presence of chromo (chromatin organization modifier) domains and SNF2-related helicase/ATPase domains. CHD genes alter gene expression possibly by modification of chromatin structure thus altering access of the transcriptional apparatus to its chromosomal DNA template. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CHD1 (Chromodomain Helicase DNA Binding Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHD1 include familial gastric cancer. Among its related pathways are Chromatin Regulation / Acetylation. GO annotations related to this gene include methylated histone binding and ATP-dependent DNA helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHD3.	ATP-dependent chromatin-remodeling factor which functions as substrate recognition component of the transcription regulatory histone acetylation (HAT) complex SAGA. Regulates polymerase II transcription. Also required for efficient transcription by RNA polymerase I, and more specifically the polymerase I transcription termination step. Regulates negatively DNA replication. Not only involved in transcription-related chromatin-remodeling, but also required to maintain a specific chromatin configuration across the genome. Is also associated with histone deacetylase (HDAC) activity (By similarity). Required for the bridging of SNF2, the FACT complex, the PAF complex as well as the U2 snRNP complex to H3K4me3. Functions to modulate the efficiency of pre-mRNA splicing in part through physical bridging of spliceosomal components to H3K4me3. Required for maintaining open chromatin and pluripotency in embryonic stem cells.	same
CHERP	empty	CHERP (Calcium Homeostasis Endoplasmic Reticulum Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHERP include spinocerebellar ataxia 2 and oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy. Among its related pathways are GPCR Pathway and Spliceosome. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and ion channel binding.	Involved in calcium homeostasis, growth and proliferation.	same
CHEK2	In response to DNA damage and replication blocks, cell cycle progression is halted through the control of critical cell cycle regulators. The protein encoded by this gene is a cell cycle checkpoint regulator and putative tumor suppressor. It contains a forkhead-associated protein interaction domain essential for activation in response to DNA damage and is rapidly phosphorylated in response to replication blocks and DNA damage. When activated, the encoded protein is known to inhibit CDC25C phosphatase, preventing entry into mitosis, and has been shown to stabilize the tumor suppressor protein p53, leading to cell cycle arrest in G1. In addition, this protein interacts with and phosphorylates BRCA1, allowing BRCA1 to restore survival after DNA damage. Mutations in this gene have been linked with Li-Fraumeni syndrome, a highly penetrant familial cancer phenotype usually associated with inherited mutations in TP53. Also, mutations in this gene are thought to confer a predisposition to sarcomas, breast cancer, and brain tumors. This nuclear protein is a member of the CDS1 subfamily of serine/threonine protein kinases. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]	CHEK2 (Checkpoint Kinase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHEK2 include chek2-related susceptibility to breast cancer and li-fraumeni syndrome, chek2-related. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and Apoptotic Pathways in Synovial Fibroblasts. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and protein serine/threonine kinase activity.	Serine/threonine-protein kinase which is required for checkpoint-mediated cell cycle arrest, activation of DNA repair and apoptosis in response to the presence of DNA double-strand breaks. May also negatively regulate cell cycle progression during unperturbed cell cycles. Following activation, phosphorylates numerous effectors preferentially at the consensus sequence [L-X-R-X-X-S/T]. Regulates cell cycle checkpoint arrest through phosphorylation of CDC25A, CDC25B and CDC25C, inhibiting their activity. Inhibition of CDC25 phosphatase activity leads to increased inhibitory tyrosine phosphorylation of CDK-cyclin complexes and blocks cell cycle progression. May also phosphorylate NEK6 which is involved in G2/M cell cycle arrest. Regulates DNA repair through phosphorylation of BRCA2, enhancing the association of RAD51 with chromatin which promotes DNA repair by homologous recombination. Also stimulates the transcription of genes involved in DNA repair (including BRCA2) through the phosphorylation and activation of the transcription factor FOXM1. Regulates apoptosis through the phosphorylation of p53/TP53, MDM4 and PML. Phosphorylation of p53/TP53 at Ser-20 by CHEK2 may alleviate inhibition by MDM2, leading to accumulation of active p53/TP53. Phosphorylation of MDM4 may also reduce degradation of p53/TP53. Also controls the transcription of pro-apoptotic genes through phosphorylation of the transcription factor E2F1. Tumor suppressor, it may also have a DNA damage-independent function in mitotic spindle assembly by phosphorylating BRCA1. Its absence may be a cause of the chromosomal instability observed in some cancer cells.	same
CHCHD7	empty	CHCHD7 (Coiled-Coil-Helix-Coiled-Coil-Helix Domain Containing 7) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CHIA	The protein encoded by this gene degrades chitin, which is found in the cell wall of most fungi as well as in arthropods and some nematodes. The encoded protein can also stimulate interleukin 13 expression, and variations in this gene can lead to asthma susceptibility. Several transcript variants encoding a few different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]	CHIA (Chitinase, Acidic) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHIA include neuromyelitis optica and gaucher's disease. Among its related pathways are Amino sugar and nucleotide sugar metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding and lysozyme activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHI3L2.	Degrades chitin and chitotriose. May participate in the defense against nematodes, fungi and other pathogens. Plays a role in T-helper cell type 2 (Th2) immune response. Contributes to the response to IL-13 and inflammation in response to IL-13. Stimulates chemokine production by pulmonary epithelial cells. Protects lung epithelial cells against apoptosis and promotes phosphorylation of AKT1. Its function in the inflammatory response and in protecting cells against apoptosis is inhibited by allosamidin, suggesting that the function of this protein depends on carbohydrate binding.	same
CHI3L1	Chitinases catalyze the hydrolysis of chitin, which is an abundant glycopolymer found in insect exoskeletons and fungal cell walls. The glycoside hydrolase 18 family of chitinases includes eight human family members. This gene encodes a glycoprotein member of the glycosyl hydrolase 18 family. The protein lacks chitinase activity and is secreted by activated macrophages, chondrocytes, neutrophils and synovial cells. The protein is thought to play a role in the process of inflammation and tissue remodeling. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]	CHI3L1 (Chitinase 3-Like 1 (Cartilage Glycoprotein-39)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHI3L1 include asthma-related traits 7 and schizophrenia. GO annotations related to this gene include extracellular matrix structural constituent and chitin binding. An important paralog of this gene is CHI3L2.	Carbohydrate-binding lectin with a preference for chitin. Has no chitinase activity. May play a role in tissue remodeling and in the capacity of cells to respond to and cope with changes in their environment. Plays a role in T-helper cell type 2 (Th2) inflammatory response and IL-13-induced inflammation, regulating allergen sensitization, inflammatory cell apoptosis, dendritic cell accumulation and M2 macrophage differentiation. Facilitates invasion of pathogenic enteric bacteria into colonic mucosa and lymphoid organs. Mediates activation of AKT1 signaling pathway and subsequent IL8 production in colonic epithelial cells. Regulates antibacterial responses in lung by contributing to macrophage bacterial killing, controlling bacterial dissemination and augmenting host tolerance. Also regulates hyperoxia-induced injury, inflammation and epithelial apoptosis in lung.	same
CHGA	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the chromogranin/secretogranin family of neuroendocrine secretory proteins. It is found in secretory vesicles of neurons and endocrine cells. This gene product is a precursor to three biologically active peptides; vasostatin, pancreastatin, and parastatin. These peptides act as autocrine or paracrine negative modulators of the neuroendocrine system. Two other peptides, catestatin and chromofungin, have antimicrobial activity and antifungal activity, respectively. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	CHGA (Chromogranin A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHGA include atrophic gastritis and lymphocytic colitis. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR.	Pancreastatin: Strongly inhibits glucose induced insulin release from the pancreas	same
CHFR	This gene encodes an E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase required for the maintenance of the antephase checkpoint that regulates cell cycle entry into mitosis and, therefore, may play a key role in cell cycle progression and tumorigenesis. The encoded protein has an N-terminal forkhead-associated domain, a central RING-finger domain, and a cysteine-rich C-terminal region. Alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2014]	CHFR (Checkpoint With Forkhead And Ring Finger Domains, E3 Ubiquitin Protein Ligase) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle / Checkpoint Control and Protein Stability. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleotide binding and ubiquitin-protein transferase activity.	E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase that functions in the antephase checkpoint by actively delaying passage into mitosis in response to microtubule poisons. Acts in early prophase before chromosome condensation, when the centrosome move apart from each other along the periphery of the nucleus. Probably involved in signaling the presence of mitotic stress caused by microtubule poisons by mediating the Lys-48-linked ubiquitination of target proteins, leading to their degradation by the proteasome. Promotes the ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of AURKA and PLK1. Probably acts as a tumor suppressor, possibly by mediating the polyubiquitination of HDAC1, leading to its degradation. May also promote the formation of Lys-63-linked polyubiquitin chains and functions with the specific ubiquitin-conjugating UBC13-MMS2 (UBE2N-UBE2V2) heterodimer. Substrates that are polyubiquitinated at Lys-63 are usually not targeted for degradation, but are rather involved in signaling cellular stress.	same
CHI3L2	The protein encoded by this gene is similar to bacterial chitinases but lacks chitinase activity. The encoded protein is secreted and is involved in cartilage biogenesis. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]	CHI3L2 (Chitinase 3-Like 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include chitinase activity and chitin binding. An important paralog of this gene is CHIT1.	Lectin that binds chitooligosaccharides and other glycans with high affinity, but not heparin. Has no chitinase activity.	same
CHID1	empty	CHID1 (Chitinase Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include chitinase activity.	Saccharide- and LPS-binding protein with possible roles in pathogen sensing and endotoxin neutralization. Ligand-binding specificity relates to the length of the oligosaccharides, with preference for chitotetraose (in vitro).	same
CHIT1	Chitotriosidase is secreted by activated human macrophages and is markedly elevated in plasma of Gaucher disease patients. The expression of chitotriosidase occurs only at a late stage of differentiation of monocytes to activated macrophages in culture. Human macrophages can synthesize a functional chitotriosidase, a highly conserved enzyme with a strongly regulated expression. This enzyme may play a role in the degradation of chitin-containing pathogens. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]	CHIT1 (Chitinase 1 (Chitotriosidase)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHIT1 include chitotriosidase deficiency and crimean-congo hemorrhagic fever. Among its related pathways are Amino sugar and nucleotide sugar metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include chitinase activity and endochitinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHI3L2.	Degrades chitin, chitotriose and chitobiose. May participate in the defense against nematodes and other pathogens. Isoform 3 has no enzymatic activity.	same
CHKA	The major pathway for the biosynthesis of phosphatidylcholine occurs via the CDP-choline pathway. The protein encoded by this gene is the initial enzyme in the sequence and may play a regulatory role. The encoded protein also catalyzes the phosphorylation of ethanolamine. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CHKA (Choline Kinase Alpha) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHKA include chanarin-dorfman syndrome and bronchiolitis obliterans organizing pneumonia. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and drug binding. An important paralog of this gene is CHKB.	Has a key role in phospholipid biosynthesis and may contribute to tumor cell growth. Catalyzes the first step in phosphatidylcholine biosynthesis. Contributes to phosphatidylethanolamine biosynthesis. Phosphorylates choline and ethanolamine. Has higher activity with choline.	same
CHKB-CPT1B	The genes CHKB and CPT1B are adjacent on chromosome 22 and read-through transcripts are expressed that include exons from both loci. The read-through transcripts are candidates for nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD) and are unlikely to express proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]	CHKB-CPT1B (CHKB-CPT1B Readthrough (NMD Candidate)) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the ncRNA class. Diseases associated with CHKB-CPT1B include narcolepsy. An important paralog of this gene is CHKB.	empty	same
CHD7	This gene encodes a protein that contains several helicase family domains. Mutations in this gene have been found in some patients with the CHARGE syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CHD7 (Chromodomain Helicase DNA Binding Protein 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHD7 include charge syndrome and scoliosis, idiopathic 3. Among its related pathways are Chromatin Regulation / Acetylation and Noncanonical Wnt signaling pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include chromatin binding and helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHD1.	Probable transcription regulator. Maybe involved in the in 45S precursor rRNA production.	same
CHD8	This gene encodes a DNA helicase that functions as a transcription repressor by remodeling chromatin structure. It binds beta-catenin and negatively regulates Wnt signaling pathway, which plays a pivotal role in vertebrate early development and morphogenesis. Mice lacking this gene exhibit early embryonic death. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	CHD8 (Chromodomain Helicase DNA Binding Protein 8) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHD8 include autism 18 and charge syndrome. Among its related pathways are Regulation of Wnt-mediated beta catenin signaling and target gene transcription and Chromatin Regulation / Acetylation. GO annotations related to this gene include histone binding and p53 binding. An important paralog of this gene is CHD1.	DNA helicase that acts as a chromatin remodeling factor and regulates transcription. Acts as a transcription repressor by remodeling chromatin structure and recruiting histone H1 to target genes. Suppresses p53/TP53-mediated apoptosis by recruiting histone H1 and preventing p53/TP53 transactivation activity. Acts as a negative regulator of Wnt signaling pathway by regulating beta-catenin (CTNNB1) activity. Negatively regulates CTNNB1-targeted gene expression by being recruited specifically to the promoter regions of several CTNNB1 responsive genes. Involved in both enhancer blocking and epigenetic remodeling at chromatin boundary via its interaction with CTCF. Acts as a suppressor of STAT3 activity by suppressing the LIF-induced STAT3 transcriptional activity. Also acts as a transcription activator via its interaction with ZNF143 by participating in efficient U6 RNA polymerase III transcription.	same
CHL1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the L1 gene family of neural cell adhesion molecules. It is a neural recognition molecule that may be involved in signal transduction pathways. The deletion of one copy of this gene may be responsible for mental defects in patients with 3p- syndrome. This protein may also play a role in the growth of certain cancers. Alternate splicing results in both coding and non-coding variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]	CHL1 (Cell Adhesion Molecule L1-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHL1 include distal monosomy 3p and 3p- syndrome. Among its related pathways are L1CAM interactions and L1CAM interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include protease binding. An important paralog of this gene is PRTG.	Extracellular matrix and cell adhesion protein that plays a role in nervous system development and in synaptic plasticity. Both soluble and membranous forms promote neurite outgrowth of cerebellar and hippocampal neurons and suppress neuronal cell death. Plays a role in neuronal positioning of pyramidal neurons and in regulation of both the number of interneurons and the efficacy of GABAergic synapses. May play a role in regulating cell migration in nerve regeneration and cortical development. Potentiates integrin-dependent cell migration towards extracellular matrix proteins. Recruits ANK3 to the plasma membrane (By similarity).	same
CHKB	Choline kinase (CK) and ethanolamine kinase (EK) catalyze the phosphorylation of choline/ethanolamine to phosphocholine/phosphoethanolamine. This is the first enzyme in the biosynthesis of phosphatidylcholine/phosphatidylethanolamine in all animal cells. The highly purified CKs from mammalian sources and their recombinant gene products have been shown to have EK activity also, indicating that both activities reside on the same protein. The choline kinase-like protein encoded by CHKL belongs to the choline/ethanolamine kinase family; however, its exact function is not known. Read-through transcripts are expressed from this locus that include exons from the downstream CPT1B locus. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]	CHKB (Choline Kinase Beta) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHKB include muscular dystrophy, congenital, megaconial type and chkb-related muscle diseases. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include ethanolamine kinase activity and choline kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ETNK1.	Has a key role in phospholipid biosynthesis. Catalyzes the first step in phosphatidylethanolamine biosynthesis. Phosphorylates ethanolamine, and can also act on choline (in vitro). Has higher activity with ethanolamine. May not significantly contribute to in vivo phosphatidylcholine biosynthesis.	same
CHMP1B	CHMP1B belongs to the chromatin-modifying protein/charged multivesicular body protein (CHMP) family. These proteins are components of ESCRT-III (endosomal sorting complex required for transport III), a complex involved in degradation of surface receptor proteins and formation of endocytic multivesicular bodies (MVBs). Some CHMPs have both nuclear and cytoplasmic/vesicular distributions, and one such CHMP, CHMP1A (MIM 164010), is required for both MVB formation and regulation of cell cycle progression (Tsang et al., 2006 [PubMed 16730941]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CHMP1B (Charged Multivesicular Body Protein 1B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHMP1B include hiv-1. Among its related pathways are Akt Signaling and Endocytosis. GO annotations related to this gene include protein domain specific binding. An important paralog of this gene is CHMP1A.	Probable peripherally associated component of the endosomal sorting required for transport complex III (ESCRT-III) which is involved in multivesicular bodies (MVBs) formation and sorting of endosomal cargo proteins into MVBs. MVBs contain intraluminal vesicles (ILVs) that are generated by invagination and scission from the limiting membrane of the endosome and mostly are delivered to lysosomes enabling degradation of membrane proteins, such as stimulated growth factor receptors, lysosomal enzymes and lipids. The MVB pathway appears to require the sequential function of ESCRT-O, -I,-II and -III complexes. ESCRT-III proteins mostly dissociate from the invaginating membrane before the ILV is released. The ESCRT machinery also functions in topologically equivalent membrane fission events, such as the terminal stages of cytokinesis and the budding of enveloped viruses (HIV-1 and other lentiviruses). ESCRT-III proteins are believed to mediate the necessary vesicle extrusion and/or membrane fission activities, possibly in conjunction with the AAA ATPase VPS4. Involved in cytokinesis. Involved in recruiting VPS4A and/or VPS4B and SPAST to the midbody of dividing cells. Involved in HIV-1 p6- and p9-dependent virus release.	same
CHMP1A	This gene encodes a member of the CHMP/Chmp family of proteins which are involved in multivesicular body sorting of proteins to the interiors of lysosomes. The initial prediction of the protein sequence encoded by this gene suggested that the encoded protein was a metallopeptidase. The nomenclature has been updated recently to reflect the correct biological function of this encoded protein. Several transcripts encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]	CHMP1A (Charged Multivesicular Body Protein 1A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHMP1A include pontocerebellar hypoplasia, type 8 and pontocerebellar hypoplasia. GO annotations related to this gene include protein domain specific binding and metallopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHMP1B.	Probable peripherally associated component of the endosomal sorting required for transport complex III (ESCRT-III) which is involved in multivesicular bodies (MVBs) formation and sorting of endosomal cargo proteins into MVBs. MVBs contain intraluminal vesicles (ILVs) that are generated by invagination and scission from the limiting membrane of the endosome and mostly are delivered to lysosomes enabling degradation of membrane proteins, such as stimulated growth factor receptors, lysosomal enzymes and lipids. The MVB pathway appears to require the sequential function of ESCRT-O, -I,-II and -III complexes. ESCRT-III proteins mostly dissociate from the invaginating membrane before the ILV is released. The ESCRT machinery also functions in topologically equivalent membrane fission events, such as the terminal stages of cytokinesis and the budding of enveloped viruses (HIV-1 and other lentiviruses). ESCRT-III proteins are believed to mediate the necessary vesicle extrusion and/or membrane fission activities, possibly in conjunction with the AAA ATPase VPS4. Involved in cytokinesis. Involved in recruiting VPS4A and/or VPS4B to the midbody of dividing cells. May also be involved in chromosome condensation. Targets the Polycomb group (PcG) protein BMI1/PCGF4 to regions of condensed chromatin. May play a role in stable cell cycle progression and in PcG gene silencing.	same
CHMP2A	CHMP2A belongs to the chromatin-modifying protein/charged multivesicular body protein (CHMP) family. These proteins are components of ESCRT-III (endosomal sorting complex required for transport III), a complex involved in degradation of surface receptor proteins and formation of endocytic multivesicular bodies (MVBs). Some CHMPs have both nuclear and cytoplasmic/vesicular distributions, and one such CHMP, CHMP1A (MIM 164010), is required for both MVB formation and regulation of cell cycle progression (Tsang et al., 2006 [PubMed 16730941]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CHMP2A (Charged Multivesicular Body Protein 2A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHMP2A include fibrosarcomatous osteosarcoma and adenocarcinoma. Among its related pathways are Disease and Endocytosis. GO annotations related to this gene include protein domain specific binding. An important paralog of this gene is CHMP2B.	Probable core component of the endosomal sorting required for transport complex III (ESCRT-III) which is involved in multivesicular bodies (MVBs) formation and sorting of endosomal cargo proteins into MVBs. MVBs contain intraluminal vesicles (ILVs) that are generated by invagination and scission from the limiting membrane of the endosome and mostly are delivered to lysosomes enabling degradation of membrane proteins, such as stimulated growth factor receptors, lysosomal enzymes and lipids. The MVB pathway appears to require the sequential function of ESCRT-O, -I,-II and -III complexes. ESCRT-III proteins mostly dissociate from the invaginating membrane before the ILV is released. The ESCRT machinery also functions in topologically equivalent membrane fission events, such as the terminal stages of cytokinesis and the budding of enveloped viruses (HIV-1 and other lentiviruses). ESCRT-III proteins are believed to mediate the necessary vesicle extrusion and/or membrane fission activities, possibly in conjunction with the AAA ATPase VPS4. Involved in HIV-1 p6- and p9-dependent virus release.	same
CHDH	The protein encoded by this gene is a choline dehydrogenase that localizes to the mitochondrion. Variations in this gene can affect susceptibility to choline deficiency. A few transcript variants have been found for this gene, but the full-length nature of only one has been characterized to date. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]	CHDH (Choline Dehydrogenase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHDH include tooth agenesis. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Glycine, serine and threonine metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include flavin adenine dinucleotide binding and choline dehydrogenase activity.	empty	same
CHML	The product of the CHML gene supports geranylgeranylation of most Rab proteins and may substitute for REP-1 in tissues other than retina. CHML is localized close to the gene for Usher syndrome type II. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CHML (Choroideremia-Like (Rab Escort Protein 2)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHML include usher syndrome type ii and choroideremia. GO annotations related to this gene include GTPase activator activity and Rab geranylgeranyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is GDI2.	Substrate-binding subunit (component A) of the Rab geranylgeranyltransferase (GGTase) complex. Binds unprenylated Rab proteins and presents the substrate peptide to the catalytic component B. The component A is thought to be regenerated by transferring its prenylated Rab back to the donor membrane. Less effective than CHM in supporting prenylation of Rab3 family.	same
CHMP4C	CHMP4C belongs to the chromatin-modifying protein/charged multivesicular body protein (CHMP) family. These proteins are components of ESCRT-III (endosomal sorting complex required for transport III), a complex involved in degradation of surface receptor proteins and formation of endocytic multivesicular bodies (MVBs). Some CHMPs have both nuclear and cytoplasmic/vesicular distributions, and one such CHMP, CHMP1A (MIM 164010), is required for both MVB formation and regulation of cell cycle progression (Tsang et al., 2006 [PubMed 16730941]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CHMP4C (Charged Multivesicular Body Protein 4C) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Disease and Endocytosis. An important paralog of this gene is CHMP4A.	Probable core component of the endosomal sorting required for transport complex III (ESCRT-III) which is involved in multivesicular bodies (MVBs) formation and sorting of endosomal cargo proteins into MVBs. MVBs contain intraluminal vesicles (ILVs) that are generated by invagination and scission from the limiting membrane of the endosome and mostly are delivered to lysosomes enabling degradation of membrane proteins, such as stimulated growth factor receptors, lysosomal enzymes and lipids. The MVB pathway appears to require the sequential function of ESCRT-O, -I,-II and -III complexes. ESCRT-III proteins mostly dissociate from the invaginating membrane before the ILV is released. The ESCRT machinery also functions in topologically equivalent membrane fission events, such as the terminal stages of cytokinesis and the budding of enveloped viruses (HIV-1 and other lentiviruses). Key component of the cytokinesis checkpoint, a process required to delay abscission to prevent both premature resolution of intercellular chromosome bridges and accumulation of DNA damage: upon phosphorylation by AURKB, together with ZFYVE19/ANCHR, retains abscission-competent VPS4 (VPS4A and/or VPS4B) at the midbody ring until abscission checkpoint signaling is terminated at late cytokinesis. Deactivation of AURKB results in dephosphorylation of CHMP4C followed by its dissociation from ANCHR and VPS4 and subsequent abscission (PubMed:22422861, PubMed:24814515). ESCRT-III proteins are believed to mediate the necessary vesicle extrusion and/or membrane fission activities, possibly in conjunction with the AAA ATPase VPS4. Involved in HIV-1 p6- and p9-dependent virus release.	same
CHIC1	empty	CHIC1 (Cysteine-Rich Hydrophobic Domain 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CHIC2.	empty	same
CHMP4B	This gene encodes a member of the chromatin-modifying protein/charged multivesicular body protein (CHMP) protein family. The protein is part of the endosomal sorting complex required for transport (ESCRT) complex III (ESCRT-III), which functions in the sorting of endocytosed cell-surface receptors into multivesicular endosomes. The ESCRT machinery also functions in the final abscisson stage of cytokinesis and in the budding of enveloped viruses such as HIV-1. The three proteins of the CHMP4 subfamily interact with programmed cell death 6 interacting protein (PDCD6IP, also known as ALIX), which also functions in the ESCRT pathway. The CHMP4 proteins assemble into membrane-attached 5-nm filaments that form circular scaffolds and promote or stabilize outward budding. These polymers are proposed to help generate the luminal vesicles of multivesicular bodies. Mutations in this gene result in autosomal dominant posterior polar cataracts.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]	CHMP4B (Charged Multivesicular Body Protein 4B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHMP4B include cataract 31, multiple types and posterior polar cataract. Among its related pathways are Disease and Endocytosis. An important paralog of this gene is CHMP4A.	Probable core component of the endosomal sorting required for transport complex III (ESCRT-III) which is involved in multivesicular bodies (MVBs) formation and sorting of endosomal cargo proteins into MVBs. MVBs contain intraluminal vesicles (ILVs) that are generated by invagination and scission from the limiting membrane of the endosome and mostly are delivered to lysosomes enabling degradation of membrane proteins, such as stimulated growth factor receptors, lysosomal enzymes and lipids. The MVB pathway appears to require the sequential function of ESCRT-O, -I,-II and -III complexes. ESCRT-III proteins mostly dissociate from the invaginating membrane before the ILV is released. The ESCRT machinery also functions in topologically equivalent membrane fission events, such as the terminal stages of cytokinesis and the budding of enveloped viruses (HIV-1 and other lentiviruses). ESCRT-III proteins are believed to mediate the necessary vesicle extrusion and/or membrane fission activities, possibly in conjunction with the AAA ATPase VPS4. When overexpressed, membrane-assembled circular arrays of CHMP4B filaments can promote or stabilize negative curvature and outward budding. Via its interaction with PDCD6IP involved in HIV-1 p6- and p9-dependent virus release.	same
CHIC2	This gene encodes a member of the CHIC family of proteins. The encoded protein contains a cysteine-rich hydrophobic (CHIC) motif, and is localized to vesicular structures and the plasma membrane. This gene is associated with some cases of acute myeloid leukemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CHIC2 (Cysteine-Rich Hydrophobic Domain 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHIC2 include leukemia, acute myeloid and leukemia. An important paralog of this gene is CHIC1.	empty	same
CHMP6	This gene encodes a member of the chromatin-modifying protein/charged multivesicular body protein family. Proteins in this family are part of the ESCRT-III (endosomal sorting complex required for transport III) which degrades surface receptors, and in biosynthesis of endosomes. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]	CHMP6 (Charged Multivesicular Body Protein 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Disease and Endocytosis. GO annotations related to this gene include protein N-terminus binding.	Probable core component of the endosomal sorting required for transport complex III (ESCRT-III) which is involved in multivesicular bodies (MVBs) formation and sorting of endosomal cargo proteins into MVBs. MVBs contain intraluminal vesicles (ILVs) that are generated by invagination and scission from the limiting membrane of the endosome and mostly are delivered to lysosomes enabling degradation of membrane proteins, such as stimulated growth factor receptors, lysosomal enzymes and lipids. The MVB pathway appears to require the sequential function of ESCRT-O, -I,-II and -III complexes. ESCRT-III proteins mostly dissociate from the invaginating membrane before the ILV is released. The ESCRT machinery also functions in topologically equivalent membrane fission events, such as the terminal stages of cytokinesis and the budding of enveloped viruses (HIV-1 and other lentiviruses). ESCRT-III proteins are believed to mediate the necessary vesicle extrusion and/or membrane fission activities, possibly in conjunction with the AAA ATPase VPS4. In the ESCRT-III complex, it probably serves as an acceptor for the ESCRT-II complex on endosomal membranes	same
CHMP2B	This gene encodes a component of the heteromeric ESCRT-III complex (Endosomal Sorting Complex Required for Transport III) that functions in the recycling or degradation of cell surface receptors. ESCRT-III functions in the concentration and invagination of ubiquitinated endosomal cargos into intralumenal vesicles. The protein encoded by this gene is found as a monomer in the cytosol or as an oligomer in ESCRT-III complexes on endosomal membranes. It is expressed in neurons of all major regions of the brain. Mutations in this gene result in one form of familial frontotemporal lobar degeneration. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CHMP2B (Charged Multivesicular Body Protein 2B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHMP2B include amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 17 and dementia, familial, nonspecific. Among its related pathways are Disease and Endocytosis. GO annotations related to this gene include protein domain specific binding. An important paralog of this gene is CHMP2A.	Probable core component of the endosomal sorting required for transport complex III (ESCRT-III) which is involved in multivesicular bodies (MVBs) formation and sorting of endosomal cargo proteins into MVBs. MVBs contain intraluminal vesicles (ILVs) that are generated by invagination and scission from the limiting membrane of the endosome and mostly are delivered to lysosomes enabling degradation of membrane proteins, such as stimulated growth factor receptors, lysosomal enzymes and lipids. The MVB pathway appears to require the sequential function of ESCRT-O, -I,-II and -III complexes. ESCRT-III proteins mostly dissociate from the invaginating membrane before the ILV is released. The ESCRT machinery also functions in topologically equivalent membrane fission events, such as the terminal stages of cytokinesis and the budding of enveloped viruses (HIV-1 and other lentiviruses). ESCRT-III proteins are believed to mediate the necessary vesicle extrusion and/or membrane fission activities, possibly in conjunction with the AAA ATPase VPS4	same
CHN1	This gene encodes GTPase-activating protein for ras-related p21-rac and a phorbol ester receptor. It is predominantly expressed in neurons, and plays an important role in neuronal signal-transduction mechanisms. Mutations in this gene are associated with Duane's retraction syndrome 2 (DURS2). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2011]	CHN1 (Chimerin 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHN1 include duane retraction syndrome 2 and duane retraction syndrome 1. Among its related pathways are RhoGDI Pathway and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include GTPase activator activity and ephrin receptor binding. An important paralog of this gene is ARHGAP27.	GTPase-activating protein for p21-rac and a phorbol ester receptor. Involved in the assembly of neuronal locomotor circuits as a direct effector of EPHA4 in axon guidance	same
CHMP4A	CHMP4A belongs to the chromatin-modifying protein/charged multivesicular body protein (CHMP) family. These proteins are components of ESCRT-III (endosomal sorting complex required for transport III), a complex involved in degradation of surface receptor proteins and formation of endocytic multivesicular bodies (MVBs). Some CHMPs have both nuclear and cytoplasmic/vesicular distributions, and one such CHMP, CHMP1A (MIM 164010), is required for both MVB formation and regulation of cell cycle progression (Tsang et al., 2006 [PubMed 16730941]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CHMP4A (Charged Multivesicular Body Protein 4A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHMP4A include hiv-1. Among its related pathways are Disease and Endocytosis. GO annotations related to this gene include lipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is CHMP4B.	Probable core component of the endosomal sorting required for transport complex III (ESCRT-III) which is involved in multivesicular bodies (MVBs) formation and sorting of endosomal cargo proteins into MVBs. MVBs contain intraluminal vesicles (ILVs) that are generated by invagination and scission from the limiting membrane of the endosome and mostly are delivered to lysosomes enabling degradation of membrane proteins, such as stimulated growth factor receptors, lysosomal enzymes and lipids. The MVB pathway appears to require the sequential function of ESCRT-O, -I,-II and -III complexes. ESCRT-III proteins mostly dissociate from the invaginating membrane before the ILV is released. The ESCRT machinery also functions in topologically equivalent membrane fission events, such as the terminal stages of cytokinesis and the budding of enveloped viruses (HIV-1 and other lentiviruses). ESCRT-III proteins are believed to mediate the necessary vesicle extrusion and/or membrane fission activities, possibly in conjunction with the AAA ATPase VPS4. When overexpressed, membrane-assembled circular arrays of CHMP4A filaments can promote or stabilize negative curvature and outward budding. Via its interaction with PDCD6IP involved in HIV-1 p6- and p9-dependent virus release.	same
CHORDC1	empty	CHORDC1 (Cysteine And Histidine-Rich Domain (CHORD) Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHORDC1 include inclusion conjunctivitis. Among its related pathways are Alzheimers disease and Calcineurin-regulated NFAT-dependent transcription in lymphocytes. GO annotations related to this gene include Hsp90 protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is ITGB1BP2.	Regulates centrosome duplication, probably by inhibiting the kinase activity of ROCK2. Proposed to act as co-chaperone for HSP90. May play a role in the regulation of NOD1 via a HSP90 chaperone complex. In vitro, has intrinsic chaperone activity. This function may be achieved by inhibiting association of ROCK2 with NPM1. Involved in stress response. Prevents tumorigenesis.	same
CHN2	This gene encodes a guanosine triphosphate (GTP)-metabolizing protein that contains a phorbol-ester/diacylglycerol (DAG)-type zinc finger, a Rho-GAP domain, and an SH2 domain. The encoded protein translocates from the cytosol to the Golgi apparatus membrane upon binding by diacylglycerol (DAG). Activity of this protein is important in cell proliferation and migration, and expression changes in this gene have been detected in cancers. A mutation in this gene has also been associated with schizophrenia in men. Alternative transcript splicing and the use of alternative promoters results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2014]	CHN2 (Chimerin 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHN2 include schizophrenia. Among its related pathways are RhoGDI Pathway and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include GTPase activator activity and SH3/SH2 adaptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHN1.	GTPase-activating protein for p21-rac. Insufficient expression of beta-2 chimaerin is expected to lead to higher Rac activity and could therefore play a role in the progression from low-grade to high-grade tumors	same
CHPF	empty	CHPF (Chondroitin Polymerizing Factor) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include glucuronosyl-N-acetylgalactosaminyl-proteoglycan 4-beta-N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase activity and N-acetylgalactosaminyl-proteoglycan 3-beta-glucuronosyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is B4GALNT4.	Has both beta-1,3-glucuronic acid and beta-1,4-N-acetylgalactosamine transferase activity. Transfers glucuronic acid (GlcUA) from UDP-GlcUA and N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) from UDP-GalNAc to the non-reducing end of the elongating chondroitin polymer. Isoform 2 may facilitate PARK2 transport into the mitochondria. In collaboration with PARK2, isoform 2 may enhance cell viability and protect cells from oxidative stress.	same
CHP2	This gene product is a small calcium-binding protein that regulates cell pH by controlling plasma membrane-type Na+/H+ exchange activity. This protein shares sequence similarity with calcineurin B and can bind to and stimulate the protein phosphatase activity of calcineurin A (CnA) and functions in the calcineurin/NFAT (nuclear factor of activated T cells) signaling pathway. Another member of the CHP subfamily, Calcineurin B homologous protein 1, is located on Chromosome 15 and is an inhibitor of calcineurin activity and has a genetic phenotype associated with Parkinson's Disease (OMIM:606988). This gene was initially identified as a tumor-associated antigen and was previously referred to as Hepatocellular carcinoma-associated antigen 520. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]	CHP2 (Calcineurin-Like EF-Hand Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHP2 include hepatocellular carcinoma. Among its related pathways are Alzheimers disease. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CHP1.	Functions as an integral cofactor in cell pH regulation by controlling plasma membrane-type Na(+)/H(+) exchange activity. Binds to and activates SLC9A1/NHE1 in a serum-independent manner, thus increasing pH and protecting cells from serum deprivation-induced death. Also plays a role in the regulation of cell proliferation and tumor growth by increasing the phosphatase activity of PPP3CA in a calcium-dependent manner. Activator of the calcineurin/NFAT signaling pathway. Involved in the cytoplasmic translocation of the transcription factor NFATC3 to the nucleus.	same
CHPT1	empty	CHPT1 (Choline Phosphotransferase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHPT1 include newborn respiratory distress syndrome. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include diacylglycerol binding and diacylglycerol cholinephosphotransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CEPT1.	Catalyzes phosphatidylcholine biosynthesis from CDP-choline. It thereby plays a central role in the formation and maintenance of vesicular membranes	same
CHGB	This gene encodes a tyrosine-sulfated secretory protein abundant in peptidergic endocrine cells and neurons. This protein may serve as a precursor for regulatory peptides. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]	CHGB (Chromogranin B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHGB include female breast carcinoma and silent pituitary adenoma. GO annotations related to this gene include hormone activity.	Secretogranin-1 is a neuroendocrine secretory granule protein, which may be the precursor for other biologically active peptides	same
CHRDL1	This gene encodes an antagonist of bone morphogenetic protein 4. The encoded protein may play a role in topographic retinotectal projection and in the regulation of retinal angiogenesis in response to hypoxia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]	CHRDL1 (Chordin-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHRDL1 include megalocornea 1, x-linked and isolated congenital megalocornea. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and TGF-beta Signaling Pathway (sino). An important paralog of this gene is CHRD.	Antagonizes the function of BMP4 by binding to it and preventing its interaction with receptors. Alters the fate commitment of neural stem cells from gliogenesis to neurogenesis. Contributes to neuronal differentiation of neural stem cells in the brain by preventing the adoption of a glial fate. May play a crucial role in dorsoventral axis formation. May play a role in embryonic bone formation (By similarity). May also play an important role in regulating retinal angiogenesis through modulation of BMP4 actions in endothelial cells. Plays a role during anterior segment eye development.	same
CHRDL2	This gene encodes a member of the chordin family of proteins. Chordin family members are secreted proteins that share a cysteine-rich pro-collagen repeat domain and associate with members of the transforming growth factor beta superfamily. In vitro assays demonstrate a direct interaction between the encoded protein and human activin A. This gene is expressed in many tissues including osteoblasts, where it is differentially expressed during differentiation. In addition, its expression is upregulated in human osteoarthritic joint cartilage, suggesting a role in adult cartilage regeneration. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2015]	CHRDL2 (Chordin-Like 2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CHRD.	May inhibit BMPs activity by blocking their interaction with their receptors. Has a negative regulator effect on the cartilage formation/regeneration from immature mesenchymal cells, by preventing or reducing the rate of matrix accumulation (By similarity). Implicated in tumor angiogenesis. May play a role during myoblast and osteoblast differentiation, and maturation.	same
CHMP5	CHMP5 belongs to the chromatin-modifying protein/charged multivesicular body protein (CHMP) family. These proteins are components of ESCRT-III (endosomal sorting complex required for transport III), a complex involved in degradation of surface receptor proteins and formation of endocytic multivesicular bodies (MVBs). Some CHMPs have both nuclear and cytoplasmic/vesicular distributions, and one such CHMP, CHMP1A (MIM 164010), is required for both MVB formation and regulation of cell cycle progression (Tsang et al., 2006 [PubMed 16730941]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CHMP5 (Charged Multivesicular Body Protein 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Disease and Endocytosis.	Probable peripherally associated component of the endosomal sorting required for transport complex III (ESCRT-III) which is involved in multivesicular bodies (MVBs) formation and sorting of endosomal cargo proteins into MVBs. MVBs contain intraluminal vesicles (ILVs) that are generated by invagination and scission from the limiting membrane of the endosome and mostly are delivered to lysosomes enabling degradation of membrane proteins, such as stimulated growth factor receptors, lysosomal enzymes and lipids. The MVB pathway appears to require the sequential function of ESCRT-O, -I,-II and -III complexes. ESCRT-III proteins mostly dissociate from the invaginating membrane before the ILV is released. The ESCRT machinery also functions in topologically equivalent membrane fission events, such as the terminal stages of cytokinesis and the budding of enveloped viruses (HIV-1 and other lentiviruses). ESCRT-III proteins are believed to mediate the necessary vesicle extrusion and/or membrane fission activities, possibly in conjunction with the AAA ATPase VPS4. Involved in HIV-1 p6- and p9-dependent virus release.	same
CHRM1	The muscarinic cholinergic receptors belong to a larger family of G protein-coupled receptors. The functional diversity of these receptors is defined by the binding of acetylcholine and includes cellular responses such as adenylate cyclase inhibition, phosphoinositide degeneration, and potassium channel mediation. Muscarinic receptors influence many effects of acetylcholine in the central and peripheral nervous system. The muscarinic cholinergic receptor 1 is involved in mediation of vagally-induced bronchoconstriction and in the acid secretion of the gastrointestinal tract. The gene encoding this receptor is localized to 11q13. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CHRM1 (Cholinergic Receptor, Muscarinic 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHRM1 include central nervous system disease and nervous system disease. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include drug binding and G-protein coupled acetylcholine receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHRM4.	The muscarinic acetylcholine receptor mediates various cellular responses, including inhibition of adenylate cyclase, breakdown of phosphoinositides and modulation of potassium channels through the action of G proteins. Primary transducing effect is Pi turnover	same
CHRFAM7A	The nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are members of a superfamily of ligand-gated ion channels that mediate fast signal transmission at synapses. The family member CHRNA7, which is located on chromosome 15 in a region associated with several neuropsychiatric disorders, is partially duplicated and forms a hybrid with a novel gene from the family with sequence similarity 7 (FAM7A). Alternative splicing has been observed, and two variants exist, for this hybrid gene. The N-terminally truncated products predicted by the largest open reading frames for each variant would lack the majority of the neurotransmitter-gated ion-channel ligand binding domain but retain the transmembrane region that forms the ion channel. Although current evidence supports transcription of this hybrid gene, translation of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor-like protein-encoding open reading frames has not been confirmed. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CHRFAM7A (CHRNA7 (Cholinergic Receptor, Nicotinic, Alpha 7, Exons 5-10) And FAM7A (Family With Sequence Similarity 7A, Exons A-E) Fusion) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHRFAM7A include autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy and frontal lobe epilepsy. Among its related pathways are CREB Pathway and Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency. GO annotations related to this gene include extracellular ligand-gated ion channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is HTR3A.	empty	same
CHRM2	The muscarinic cholinergic receptors belong to a larger family of G protein-coupled receptors. The functional diversity of these receptors is defined by the binding of acetylcholine to these receptors and includes cellular responses such as adenylate cyclase inhibition, phosphoinositide degeneration, and potassium channel mediation. Muscarinic receptors influence many effects of acetylcholine in the central and peripheral nervous system. The muscarinic cholinergic receptor 2 is involved in mediation of bradycardia and a decrease in cardiac contractility. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CHRM2 (Cholinergic Receptor, Muscarinic 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHRM2 include tendinosis and neurogenic bladder. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include G-protein coupled acetylcholine receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHRM4.	The muscarinic acetylcholine receptor mediates various cellular responses, including inhibition of adenylate cyclase, breakdown of phosphoinositides and modulation of potassium channels through the action of G proteins. Primary transducing effect is adenylate cyclase inhibition. Signaling promotes phospholipase C activity, leading to the release of inositol trisphosphate (IP3); this then triggers calcium ion release into the cytosol.	same
CHRM3	The muscarinic cholinergic receptors belong to a larger family of G protein-coupled receptors. The functional diversity of these receptors is defined by the binding of acetylcholine and includes cellular responses such as adenylate cyclase inhibition, phosphoinositide degeneration, and potassium channel mediation. Muscarinic receptors influence many effects of acetylcholine in the central and peripheral nervous system. The muscarinic cholinergic receptor 3 controls smooth muscle contraction and its stimulation causes secretion of glandular tissue. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CHRM3 (Cholinergic Receptor, Muscarinic 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHRM3 include eagle-barrett syndrome and cholinergic urticaria. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Regulation of actin cytoskeleton. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor activity and phosphatidylinositol phospholipase C activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHRM4.	The muscarinic acetylcholine receptor mediates various cellular responses, including inhibition of adenylate cyclase, breakdown of phosphoinositides and modulation of potassium channels through the action of G proteins. Primary transducing effect is Pi turnover.	same
CHRAC1	CHRAC1 is a histone-fold protein that interacts with other histone-fold proteins to bind DNA in a sequence-independent manner. These histone-fold protein dimers combine within larger enzymatic complexes for DNA transcription, replication, and packaging.[supplied by OMIM, Apr 2004]	CHRAC1 (Chromatin Accessibility Complex 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding and DNA-directed DNA polymerase activity.	Forms a complex with DNA polymerase epsilon subunit POLE3 and binds naked DNA, which is then incorporated into chromatin, aided by the nucleosome remodeling activity of ISWI/SNF2H and ACF1	same
CHRNA1	The muscle acetylcholine receptor consiststs of 5 subunits of 4 different types: 2 alpha subunits and 1 each of the beta, gamma, and delta subunits. This gene encodes an alpha subunit that plays a role in acetlycholine binding/channel gating. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2012]	CHRNA1 (Cholinergic Receptor, Nicotinic, Alpha 1 (Muscle)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHRNA1 include chrna1-related multiple pterygium syndrome, lethal type and chrna1-related congenital myasthenic syndrome. Among its related pathways are CREB Pathway and Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency. GO annotations related to this gene include acetylcholine-activated cation-selective channel activity and acetylcholine receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHRNA3.	After binding acetylcholine, the AChR responds by an extensive change in conformation that affects all subunits and leads to opening of an ion-conducting channel across the plasma membrane	same
CHRD	This gene encodes a secreted protein that dorsalizes early vertebrate embryonic tissues by binding to ventralizing TGF-beta-like bone morphogenetic proteins and sequestering them in latent complexes. The encoded protein may also have roles in organogenesis and during adulthood. It has been suggested that this gene could be a candidate gene for Cornelia de Lange syndrome. Reduced expression of this gene results in enhanced bone regeneration. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Other alternative splice variants have been described but their full length sequence has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2015]	CHRD (Chordin) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are TGF-beta signaling pathway (KEGG) and Signaling by BMP. GO annotations related to this gene include heparin binding and syndecan binding. An important paralog of this gene is CHRDL2.	Dorsalizing factor. Key developmental protein that dorsalizes early vertebrate embryonic tissues by binding to ventralizing TGF-beta family bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) and sequestering them in latent complexes (By similarity).	same
CHRNA10	empty	CHRNA10 (Cholinergic Receptor, Nicotinic, Alpha 10 (Neuronal)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are CREB Pathway and Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and acetylcholine-activated cation-selective channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is HTR3A.	Ionotropic receptor with a probable role in the modulation of auditory stimuli. Agonist binding may induce an extensive change in conformation that affects all subunits and leads to opening of an ion-conducting channel across the plasma membrane. The channel is permeable to a range of divalent cations including calcium, the influx of which may activate a potassium current which hyperpolarizes the cell membrane. In the ear, this may lead to a reduction in basilar membrane motion, altering the activity of auditory nerve fibers and reducing the range of dynamic hearing. This may protect against acoustic trauma.	same
CHRNA2	Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are ligand-gated ion channels formed by a pentameric arrangement of alpha and beta subunits to create distinct muscle and neuronal receptors. Neuronal receptors are found throughout the peripheral and central nervous system where they are involved in fast synaptic transmission. This gene encodes an alpha subunit that is widely expressed in the brain. The proposed structure for nAChR subunits is a conserved N-terminal extracellular domain followed by three conserved transmembrane domains, a variable cytoplasmic loop, a fourth conserved transmembrane domain, and a short C-terminal extracellular region. Mutations in this gene cause autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy type 4. Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in this gene have been associated with nicotine dependence. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]	CHRNA2 (Cholinergic Receptor, Nicotinic, Alpha 2 (Neuronal)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHRNA2 include epilepsy, nocturnal frontal lobe, type 4 and chrna2-related nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy, autosomal dominant. Among its related pathways are CREB Pathway and Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency. GO annotations related to this gene include acetylcholine-activated cation-selective channel activity and acetylcholine receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHRNA3.	After binding acetylcholine, the AChR responds by an extensive change in conformation that affects all subunits and leads to opening of an ion-conducting channel across the plasma membrane	same
CHODL	This gene encodes a type I membrane protein with a carbohydrate recognition domain characteristic of C-type lectins in its extracellular portion. In other proteins, this domain is involved in endocytosis of glycoproteins and exogenous sugar-bearing pathogens. This protein localizes predominantly to the perinuclear region. Several transcript variants encoding a few different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]	CHODL (Chondrolectin) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding and hyaluronic acid binding. An important paralog of this gene is LAYN.	empty	same
CHPF2	empty	CHPF2 (Chondroitin Polymerizing Factor 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHPF2 include mucopolysaccharidoses. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include N-acetylgalactosaminyl-proteoglycan 3-beta-glucuronosyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is B4GALNT4.	Transfers glucuronic acid (GlcUA) from UDP-GlcUA to N-acetylgalactosamine residues on the non-reducing end of the elongating chondroitin polymer. Has no N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase activity.	same
CHRNA4	This gene encodes a nicotinic acetylcholine receptor, which belongs to a superfamily of ligand-gated ion channels that play a role in fast signal transmission at synapses. These pentameric receptors can bind acetylcholine, which causes an extensive change in conformation that leads to the opening of an ion-conducting channel across the plasma membrane. This protein is an integral membrane receptor subunit that can interact with either nAChR beta-2 or nAChR beta-4 to form a functional receptor. Mutations in this gene cause nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy type 1. Polymorphisms in this gene that provide protection against nicotine addiction have been described. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]	CHRNA4 (Cholinergic Receptor, Nicotinic, Alpha 4 (Neuronal)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHRNA4 include epilepsy, nocturnal frontal lobe, 1 and chrna4-related nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy, autosomal dominant. Among its related pathways are CREB Pathway and Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency. GO annotations related to this gene include acetylcholine-activated cation-selective channel activity and ligand-gated ion channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHRNA3.	After binding acetylcholine, the AChR responds by an extensive change in conformation that affects all subunits and leads to opening of an ion-conducting channel across the plasma membrane permeable to sodium ions.	same
CHP	empty	empty	empty	same
CHRNA5	The protein encoded by this gene is a nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subunit and a member of a superfamily of ligand-gated ion channels that mediate fast signal transmission at synapses. These receptors are thought to be heteropentamers composed of separate but similar subunits. Defects in this gene have been linked to susceptibility to lung cancer type 2 (LNCR2).[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	CHRNA5 (Cholinergic Receptor, Nicotinic, Alpha 5 (Neuronal)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHRNA5 include lung cancer susceptibility 2 and frontal lobe epilepsy. Among its related pathways are CREB Pathway and Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency. GO annotations related to this gene include acetylcholine-activated cation-selective channel activity and ligand-gated ion channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHRNA3.	After binding acetylcholine, the AChR responds by an extensive change in conformation that affects all subunits and leads to opening of an ion-conducting channel across the plasma membrane	same
CHRNA6	This gene encodes an alpha subunit of neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. These receptors consist of five subunits and function as ion channels involved in neurotransmission. The encoded protein is a subunit of neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors that mediate dopaminergic neurotransmission and are activated by acetylcholine and exogenous nicotine. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene. Single nucleotide polymorphisms in this gene have been associated with both nicotine and alcohol dependence. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]	CHRNA6 (Cholinergic Receptor, Nicotinic, Alpha 6 (Neuronal)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHRNA6 include autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy and frontal lobe epilepsy. Among its related pathways are CREB Pathway and Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency. GO annotations related to this gene include acetylcholine-activated cation-selective channel activity and acetylcholine receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHRNA3.	After binding acetylcholine, the AChR responds by an extensive change in conformation that affects all subunits and leads to opening of an ion-conducting channel across the plasma membrane	same
CHRNA9	This gene is a member of the ligand-gated ionic channel family and nicotinic acetylcholine receptor gene superfamily. It encodes a plasma membrane protein that forms homo- or hetero-oligomeric divalent cation channels. This protein is involved in cochlea hair cell development and is also expressed in the outer hair cells (OHCs) of the adult cochlea. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]	CHRNA9 (Cholinergic Receptor, Nicotinic, Alpha 9 (Neuronal)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are CREB Pathway and Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium channel activity and acetylcholine-activated cation-selective channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is HTR3A.	Ionotropic receptor with a probable role in the modulation of auditory stimuli. Agonist binding induces a conformation change that leads to the opening of an ion-conducting channel across the plasma membrane (PubMed:11752216, PubMed:25282151). The channel is permeable to a range of divalent cations including calcium, the influx of which may activate a potassium current which hyperpolarizes the cell membrane (PubMed:11752216, PubMed:25282151). In the ear, this may lead to a reduction in basilar membrane motion, altering the activity of auditory nerve fibers and reducing the range of dynamic hearing. This may protect against acoustic trauma. May also regulate keratinocyte adhesion (PubMed:11021840).	same
CHRNA7	The nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are members of a superfamily of ligand-gated ion channels that mediate fast signal transmission at synapses. The nAChRs are thought to be hetero-pentamers composed of homologous subunits. The proposed structure for each subunit is a conserved N-terminal extracellular domain followed by three conserved transmembrane domains, a variable cytoplasmic loop, a fourth conserved transmembrane domain, and a short C-terminal extracellular region. The protein encoded by this gene forms a homo-oligomeric channel, displays marked permeability to calcium ions and is a major component of brain nicotinic receptors that are blocked by, and highly sensitive to, alpha-bungarotoxin. Once this receptor binds acetylcholine, it undergoes an extensive change in conformation that affects all subunits and leads to opening of an ion-conducting channel across the plasma membrane. This gene is located in a region identified as a major susceptibility locus for juvenile myoclonic epilepsy and a chromosomal location involved in the genetic transmission of schizophrenia. An evolutionarily recent partial duplication event in this region results in a hybrid containing sequence from this gene and a novel FAM7A gene. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]	CHRNA7 (Cholinergic Receptor, Nicotinic, Alpha 7 (Neuronal)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHRNA7 include 15q13.3 microdeletion and intermittent explosive disorder. Among its related pathways are CREB Pathway and Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and acetylcholine-activated cation-selective channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is HTR3A.	After binding acetylcholine, the AChR responds by an extensive change in conformation that affects all subunits and leads to opening of an ion-conducting channel across the plasma membrane. The channel is blocked by alpha-bungarotoxin	same
CHRNA3	This locus encodes a member of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor family of proteins. Members of this family of proteins form pentameric complexes comprised of both alpha and beta subunits. This locus encodes an alpha-type subunit, as it contains characteristic adjacent cysteine residues. The encoded protein is a ligand-gated ion channel that likely plays a role in neurotransmission. Polymorphisms in this gene have been associated with an increased risk of smoking initiation and an increased susceptibility to lung cancer. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]	CHRNA3 (Cholinergic Receptor, Nicotinic, Alpha 3 (Neuronal)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHRNA3 include lung cancer susceptibility 2 and frontal lobe epilepsy. Among its related pathways are CREB Pathway and Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency. GO annotations related to this gene include acetylcholine-activated cation-selective channel activity and ligand-gated ion channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHRNA2.	After binding acetylcholine, the AChR responds by an extensive change in conformation that affects all subunits and leads to opening of an ion-conducting channel across the plasma membrane	same
CHRNE	Acetylcholine receptors at mature mammalian neuromuscular junctions are pentameric protein complexes composed of four subunits in the ratio of two alpha subunits to one beta, one epsilon, and one delta subunit. The acetylcholine receptor changes subunit composition shortly after birth when the epsilon subunit replaces the gamma subunit seen in embryonic receptors. Mutations in the epsilon subunit are associated with congenital myasthenic syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]	CHRNE (Cholinergic Receptor, Nicotinic, Epsilon (Muscle)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHRNE include myasthenic syndrome, congenital, associated with acetylcholine receptor deficiency and chrne-related congenital myasthenic syndrome. Among its related pathways are CREB Pathway and Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency. GO annotations related to this gene include acetylcholine-activated cation-selective channel activity and acetylcholine receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHRNA3.	After binding acetylcholine, the AChR responds by an extensive change in conformation that affects all subunits and leads to opening of an ion-conducting channel across the plasma membrane	same
CHMP7	empty	CHMP7 (Charged Multivesicular Body Protein 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Disease and Endocytosis. GO annotations related to this gene include protein transporter activity.	Plays a role in the endosomal sorting pathway.	same
CHRM4	The muscarinic cholinergic receptors belong to a larger family of G protein-coupled receptors. The functional diversity of these receptors is defined by the binding of acetylcholine and includes cellular responses such as adenylate cyclase inhibition, phosphoinositide degeneration, and potassium channel mediation. Muscarinic receptors influence many effects of acetylcholine in the central and peripheral nervous system. The clinical implications of this receptor are unknown; however, mouse studies link its function to adenylyl cyclase inhibition. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CHRM4 (Cholinergic Receptor, Muscarinic 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Regulation of actin cytoskeleton. GO annotations related to this gene include G-protein coupled acetylcholine receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is HTR2C.	The muscarinic acetylcholine receptor mediates various cellular responses, including inhibition of adenylate cyclase, breakdown of phosphoinositides and modulation of potassium channels through the action of G proteins. Primary transducing effect is inhibition of adenylate cyclase	same
CHRNG	The mammalian muscle-type acetylcholine receptor is a transmembrane pentameric glycoprotein with two alpha subunits, one beta, one delta, and one epsilon (in adult skeletal muscle) or gamma (in fetal and denervated muscle) subunit. This gene, which encodes the gamma subunit, is expressed prior to the thirty-third week of gestation in humans. The gamma subunit of the acetylcholine receptor plays a role in neuromuscular organogenesis and ligand binding and disruption of gamma subunit expression prevents the correct localization of the receptor in cell membranes. Mutations in this gene cause Escobar syndrome and a lethal form of multiple pterygium syndrome. Muscle-type acetylcholine receptor is the major antigen in the autoimmune disease myasthenia gravis.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]	CHRNG (Cholinergic Receptor, Nicotinic, Gamma (Muscle)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHRNG include escobar syndrome and chrng-related disorders. Among its related pathways are CREB Pathway and Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency. GO annotations related to this gene include acetylcholine-activated cation-selective channel activity and channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHRNA3.	After binding acetylcholine, the AChR responds by an extensive change in conformation that affects all subunits and leads to opening of an ion-conducting channel across the plasma membrane	same
CHRM5	The muscarinic cholinergic receptors belong to a larger family of G protein-coupled receptors. The functional diversity of these receptors is defined by the binding of acetylcholine and includes cellular responses such as adenylate cyclase inhibition, phosphoinositide degeneration, and potassium channel mediation. Muscarinic receptors influence many effects of acetylcholine in the central and peripheral nervous system. The clinical implications of this receptor are unknown; however, stimulation of this receptor is known to increase cyclic AMP levels. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CHRM5 (Cholinergic Receptor, Muscarinic 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHRM5 include cannabis dependence and schizophrenia. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Regulation of actin cytoskeleton. GO annotations related to this gene include phosphatidylinositol phospholipase C activity and G-protein coupled acetylcholine receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHRM4.	The muscarinic acetylcholine receptor mediates various cellular responses, including inhibition of adenylate cyclase, breakdown of phosphoinositides and modulation of potassium channels through the action of G proteins. Primary transducing effect is Pi turnover	same
CHST11	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the sulfotransferase 2 family. It is localized to the golgi membrane, and catalyzes the transfer of sulfate to position 4 of the N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) residue of chondroitin. Chondroitin sulfate constitutes the predominant proteoglycan present in cartilage, and is distributed on the surfaces of many cells and extracellular matrices. A chromosomal translocation involving this gene and IgH, t(12;14)(q23;q32), has been reported in a patient with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	CHST11 (Carbohydrate (Chondroitin 4) Sulfotransferase 11) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHST11 include cannabis dependence and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Among its related pathways are Disease and Endochondral Ossification. GO annotations related to this gene include N-acetylgalactosamine 4-O-sulfotransferase activity and N-acetylgalactosamine 4-sulfate 6-O-sulfotransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHST13.	Catalyzes the transfer of sulfate to position 4 of the N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) residue of chondroitin. Chondroitin sulfate constitutes the predominant proteoglycan present in cartilage and is distributed on the surfaces of many cells and extracellular matrices. Can also sulfate Gal residues in desulfated dermatan sulfate. Preferentially sulfates in GlcA->GalNAc unit than in IdoA->GalNAc unit. Does not form 4, 6-di-O-sulfated GalNAc when chondroitin sulfate C is used as an acceptor	same
CHM	This gene encodes component A of the RAB geranylgeranyl transferase holoenzyme. In the dimeric holoenzyme, this subunit binds unprenylated Rab GTPases and then presents them to the catalytic Rab GGTase subunit for the geranylgeranyl transfer reaction. Rab GTPases need to be geranylgeranyled on either one or two cysteine residues in their C-terminus to localize to the correct intracellular membrane. Mutations in this gene are a cause of choroideremia; also known as tapetochoroidal dystrophy (TCD). This X-linked disease is characterized by progressive dystrophy of the choroid, retinal pigment epithelium and retina. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]	CHM (Choroideremia (Rab Escort Protein 1)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHM include charcot-marie-tooth disease, dominant intermediate d and choroideremia. GO annotations related to this gene include GTPase activator activity and Rab geranylgeranyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHML.	Substrate-binding subunit of the Rab geranylgeranyltransferase (GGTase) complex. Binds unprenylated Rab proteins and presents the substrate peptide to the catalytic component B composed of RABGGTA and RABGGTB, and remains bound to it after the geranylgeranyl transfer reaction. The component A is thought to be regenerated by transferring its prenylated Rab back to the donor membrane. Besides, a pre-formed complex consisting of CHM and the Rab GGTase dimer (RGGT or component B) can bind to and prenylate Rab proteins; this alternative pathway is proposed to be the predominant pathway for Rab protein geranylgeranylation.	same
CHRND	The acetylcholine receptor of muscle has 5 subunits of 4 different types: 2 alpha and 1 each of beta, gamma and delta subunits. After acetylcholine binding, the receptor undergoes an extensive conformation change that affects all subunits and leads to opening of an ion-conducting channel across the plasma membrane. Defects in this gene are a cause of multiple pterygium syndrome lethal type (MUPSL), congenital myasthenic syndrome slow-channel type (SCCMS), and congenital myasthenic syndrome fast-channel type (FCCMS). Several transcript variants, some protein-coding and some not, have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]	CHRND (Cholinergic Receptor, Nicotinic, Delta (Muscle)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHRND include multiple pterygium syndrome, lethal type and myasthenic syndrome, slow-channel congenital. Among its related pathways are CREB Pathway and Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency. GO annotations related to this gene include acetylcholine-activated cation-selective channel activity and acetylcholine binding. An important paralog of this gene is CHRNA3.	After binding acetylcholine, the AChR responds by an extensive change in conformation that affects all subunits and leads to opening of an ion-conducting channel across the plasma membrane	same
CHST12	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the sulfotransferase 2 family. It is localized to the golgi membrane, and catalyzes the transfer of sulfate to position 4 of the N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) residue of chondroitin and desulfated dermatan sulfate. Chondroitin sulfate constitutes the predominant proteoglycan present in cartilage, and is distributed on the surfaces of many cells and extracellular matrices. Alternatively spliced transcript variants differing only in their 5' UTRs have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	CHST12 (Carbohydrate (Chondroitin 4) Sulfotransferase 12) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include 3-phosphoadenosine 5-phosphosulfate binding and chondroitin 4-sulfotransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHST13.	Catalyzes the transfer of sulfate to position 4 of the N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) residue of chondroitin and desulfated dermatan sulfate. Chondroitin sulfate constitutes the predominant proteoglycan present in cartilage and is distributed on the surfaces of many cells and extracellular matrices. Activity toward partially desulfated dermatan sulfate is however lower. Does not form 4, 6-di-O-sulfated GalNAc when chondroitin sulfate C is used as an acceptor	same
CHRNB3	The nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are members of a superfamily of ligand-gated ion channels that mediate fast signal transmission at synapses. The nAChRs are (hetero)pentamers composed of homologous subunits. The subunits that make up the muscle and neuronal forms of nAChRs are encoded by separate genes and have different primary structure. There are several subtypes of neuronal nAChRs that vary based on which homologous subunits are arranged around the central channel. They are classified as alpha-subunits if, like muscle alpha-1 (MIM 100690), they have a pair of adjacent cysteines as part of the presumed acetylcholine binding site. Subunits lacking these cysteine residues are classified as beta-subunits (Groot Kormelink and Luyten, 1997 [PubMed 9009220]). Elliott et al. (1996) [PubMed 8906617] stated that the proposed structure for each subunit is a conserved N-terminal extracellular domain followed by 3 conserved transmembrane domains, a variable cytoplasmic loop, a fourth conserved transmembrane domain, and a short C-terminal extracellular region.[supplied by OMIM, Apr 2010]	CHRNB3 (Cholinergic Receptor, Nicotinic, Beta 3 (Neuronal)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHRNB3 include epilepsy with generalized tonic-clonic seizures and juvenile absence epilepsy. Among its related pathways are Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency and Transmission across Chemical Synapses. GO annotations related to this gene include acetylcholine-activated cation-selective channel activity and acetylcholine binding. An important paralog of this gene is CHRNA3.	After binding acetylcholine, the AChR responds by an extensive change in conformation that affects all subunits and leads to opening of an ion-conducting channel across the plasma membrane	same
CHRNB2	Neuronal acetylcholine receptors are homo- or heteropentameric complexes composed of homologous alpha and beta subunits. They belong to a superfamily of ligand-gated ion channels which allow the flow of sodium and potassium across the plasma membrane in response to ligands such as acetylcholine and nicotine. This gene encodes one of several beta subunits. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CHRNB2 (Cholinergic Receptor, Nicotinic, Beta 2 (Neuronal)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHRNB2 include epilepsy, nocturnal frontal lobe, 3 and chrnb2-related nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy, autosomal dominant. Among its related pathways are Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency and SIDS Susceptibility Pathways. GO annotations related to this gene include acetylcholine-activated cation-selective channel activity and ligand-gated ion channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHRNA3.	After binding acetylcholine, the AChR responds by an extensive change in conformation that affects all subunits and leads to opening of an ion-conducting channel across the plasma membrane permeable to sodiun ions.	same
CHST3	This gene encodes an enzyme which catalyzes the sulfation of chondroitin, a proteoglycan found in the extracellular matrix and most cells which is involved in cell migration and differentiation. Mutations in this gene are associated with spondylepiphyseal dysplasia and humerospinal dysostosis. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]	CHST3 (Carbohydrate (Chondroitin 6) Sulfotransferase 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHST3 include spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia with congenital joint dislocations and larsen syndrome, autosomal recessive. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include sulfotransferase activity and chondroitin 6-sulfotransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHST2.	Sulfotransferase that utilizes 3-phospho-5-adenylyl sulfate (PAPS) as sulfonate donor to catalyze the transfer of sulfate to position 6 of the N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) residue of chondroitin. Chondroitin sulfate constitutes the predominant proteoglycan present in cartilage and is distributed on the surfaces of many cells and extracellular matrices. Can also sulfate Gal residues of keratan sulfate, another glycosaminoglycan, and the Gal residues in sialyl N-acetyllactosamine (sialyl LacNAc) oligosaccharides. May play a role in the maintenance of naive T-lymphocytes in the spleen.	same
CHST1	This locus encodes a member of the keratin sulfotransferase family of proteins. The encoded enzyme catalyzes the sulfation of the proteoglycan keratin. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	CHST1 (Carbohydrate (Keratan Sulfate Gal-6) Sulfotransferase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHST1 include macular corneal dystrophy. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include sulfotransferase activity and keratan sulfotransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHST2.	Sulfotransferase that utilizes 3-phospho-5-adenylyl sulfate (PAPS) as sulfonate donor to catalyze the transfer of sulfate to position 6 of galactose (Gal) residues of keratan. Has a preference for sulfating keratan sulfate, but it also transfers sulfate to the unsulfated polymer. The sulfotransferase activity on sialyl LacNAc structures is much higher than the corresponding desialylated substrate, and only internal Gal residues are sulfated. May function in the sulfation of sialyl N-acetyllactosamine oligosaccharide chains attached to glycoproteins. Participates in biosynthesis of selectin ligands. Selectin ligands are present in high endothelial cells (HEVs) and play a central role in lymphocyte homing at sites of inflammation.	same
CHST2	This locus encodes a sulfotransferase protein. The encoded enzyme catalyzes the sulfation of a nonreducing N-acetylglucosamine residue, and may play a role in biosynthesis of 6-sulfosialyl Lewis X antigen. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	CHST2 (Carbohydrate (N-Acetylglucosamine-6-O) Sulfotransferase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include sulfotransferase activity and N-acetylglucosamine 6-O-sulfotransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHST4.	Sulfotransferase that utilizes 3-phospho-5-adenylyl sulfate (PAPS) as sulfonate donor to catalyze the transfer of sulfate to position 6 of non-reducing N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) residues within keratan-like structures on N-linked glycans and within mucin-associated glycans that can ultimately serve as SELL ligands. SELL ligands are present in high endothelial cells (HEVs) and play a central role in lymphocyte homing at sites of inflammation. Participates in biosynthesis of the SELL ligand sialyl 6-sulfo Lewis X and in lymphocyte homing to Peyer patches. Has no activity toward O-linked sugars. Its substrate specificity may be influenced by its subcellular location. Sulfates GlcNAc residues at terminal, non-reducing ends of oligosaccharide chains.	same
CHRNB1	The muscle acetylcholine receptor is composed of five subunits: two alpha subunits and one beta, one gamma, and one delta subunit. This gene encodes the beta subunit of the acetylcholine receptor. The acetylcholine receptor changes conformation upon acetylcholine binding leading to the opening of an ion-conducting channel across the plasma membrane. Mutations in this gene are associated with slow-channel congenital myasthenic syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CHRNB1 (Cholinergic Receptor, Nicotinic, Beta 1 (Muscle)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHRNB1 include chrnb1-related congenital myasthenic syndrome and congenital myasthenic syndrome. Among its related pathways are Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency and AMPK Enzyme Complex Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include acetylcholine-activated cation-selective channel activity and channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHRNA3.	After binding acetylcholine, the AChR responds by an extensive change in conformation that affects all subunits and leads to opening of an ion-conducting channel across the plasma membrane	same
CHST13	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the sulfotransferase 2 family. It is localized to the golgi membrane, and catalyzes the transfer of sulfate to the C4 hydroxyl of beta-1,4-linked N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) flanked by glucuronic acid residue in chondroitin. Chondroitin sulfate constitutes the predominant proteoglycan present in cartilage and is distributed on the surfaces of many cells and extracellular matrices. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	CHST13 (Carbohydrate (Chondroitin 4) Sulfotransferase 13) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include N-acetylgalactosamine 4-O-sulfotransferase activity and chondroitin 4-sulfotransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHST11.	Catalyzes the transfer of sulfate to position 4 of the N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) residue of chondroitin. Chondroitin sulfate constitutes the predominant proteoglycan present in cartilage and is distributed on the surfaces of many cells and extracellular matrices. Transfers sulfate to the C4 hydroxyl of beta1,4-linked GalNAc that is substituted with a beta-linked glucuronic acid at the C-3 hydroxyl. No activity toward dermatan	same
CHRNB4	empty	CHRNB4 (Cholinergic Receptor, Nicotinic, Beta 4 (Neuronal)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHRNB4 include lung cancer. Among its related pathways are Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency and SIDS Susceptibility Pathways. GO annotations related to this gene include acetylcholine-activated cation-selective channel activity and ligand-gated ion channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHRNA3.	After binding acetylcholine, the AChR responds by an extensive change in conformation that affects all subunits and leads to opening of an ion-conducting channel across the plasma membrane	same
CHST5	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Gal/GalNAc/GlcNAc 6-O-sulfotransferase (GST) family, members of which catalyze the transfer of sulfate to position 6 of galactose (Gal), N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc), or N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) residues within proteoglycans, and sulfation of O-linked sugars of mucin-type acceptors. Carbohydrate sulfation plays a critical role in many biologic processes. This gene is predominantly expressed in colon and small intestine. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	CHST5 (Carbohydrate (N-Acetylglucosamine 6-O) Sulfotransferase 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHST5 include macular corneal dystrophy and mucopolysaccharidoses. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include sulfotransferase activity and N-acetylglucosamine 6-O-sulfotransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHST2.	Sulfotransferase that utilizes 3-phospho-5-adenylyl sulfate (PAPS) as sulfonate donor to catalyze the transfer of sulfate to position 6 of non-reducing N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) residues and O-linked sugars of mucin-type acceptors. Acts on the non-reducing terminal GlcNAc of short carbohydrate substrates. However, it does not transfer sulfate to longer carbohydrate substrates that have poly-N-acetyllactosamine structures. Has no activity toward keratan. Not involved in generating HEV-expressed ligands for SELL. Its substrate specificity may be influenced by its subcellular location.	same
CHST6	The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme that catalyzes the transfer of a sulfate group to the GlcNAc residues of keratan. Keratan sulfate helps maintain corneal transparency. Defects in this gene are a cause of macular corneal dystrophy (MCD). [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]	CHST6 (Carbohydrate (N-Acetylglucosamine 6-O) Sulfotransferase 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHST6 include macular corneal dystrophy and irregular astigmatism. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include N-acetylglucosamine 6-O-sulfotransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHST2.	Sulfotransferase that utilizes 3-phospho-5-adenylyl sulfate (PAPS) as sulfonate donor to catalyze the transfer of sulfate to position 6 of non-reducing N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) residues of keratan. Mediates sulfation of keratan in cornea. Keratan sulfate plays a central role in maintaining corneal transparency. Acts on the non-reducing terminal GlcNAc of short and long carbohydrate substrates that have poly-N-acetyllactosamine structures.	same
CHST15	Chondroitin sulfate (CS) is a glycosaminoglycan which is an important structural component of the extracellular matrix and which links to proteins to form proteoglycans. Chondroitin sulfate E (CS-E) is an isomer of chondroitin sulfate in which the C-4 and C-6 hydroxyl groups are sulfated. This gene encodes a type II transmembrane glycoprotein that acts as a sulfotransferase to transfer sulfate to the C-6 hydroxal group of chondroitin sulfate. This gene has also been identified as being co-expressed with RAG1 in B-cells and as potentially acting as a B-cell surface signaling receptor. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]	CHST15 (Carbohydrate (N-Acetylgalactosamine 4-Sulfate 6-O) Sulfotransferase 15) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include 3-phosphoadenosine 5-phosphosulfate binding and N-acetylgalactosamine 4-sulfate 6-O-sulfotransferase activity.	Sulfotransferase that transfers sulfate from 3-phosphoadenosine 5-phosphosulfate (PAPS) to the C-6 hydroxyl group of the GalNAc 4-sulfate residue of chondroitin sulfate A and forms chondroitin sulfate E containing GlcA-GalNAc(4,6-SO(4)) repeating units. It also transfers sulfate to a unique non-reducing terminal sequence, GalNAc(4SO4)-GlcA(2SO4)-GalNAc(6SO4), to yield a highly sulfated structure similar to the structure found in thrombomodulin chondroitin sulfate. May also act as a B-cell receptor involved in BCR ligation-mediated early activation that mediate regulatory signals key to B-cell development and/or regulation of B-cell-specific RAG expression; however such results are unclear in vivo.	same
CHST7	This gene is a member of the Gal/GalNAc/GlcNAc (galactose/N-acetylgalactosamine/N-acetylglucosamine) 6-O-sulfotransferase (GST) family. Members of this family encode enzymes that catalyze the specific addition of sulfate groups to distinct hydroxyl and amino groups of carbohydrates. The encoded protein catalyzes the sulfation of 6-hydroxyl group of GalNAc in chondroitin. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2013]	CHST7 (Carbohydrate (N-Acetylglucosamine 6-O) Sulfotransferase 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include N-acetylglucosamine 6-O-sulfotransferase activity and chondroitin 6-sulfotransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHST2.	Sulfotransferase that utilizes 3-phospho-5-adenylyl sulfate (PAPS) as sulfonate donor to catalyze the transfer of sulfate to position 6 of non-reducing N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) residues. Preferentially acts on mannose-linked GlcNAc. Also able to catalyze the transfer of sulfate to position 6 of the N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) residue of chondroitin. Also acts on core 2 mucin-type oligosaccharide and N-acetyllactosamine oligomer with a lower efficiency. Has weak or no activity toward keratan sulfate and oligosaccharides containing the Galbeta1-4GlcNAc. Catalyzes 6-O-sulfation of beta-benzyl GlcNAc but not alpha- or beta-benzyl GalNAc.	same
CHST14	This gene encodes a member of the HNK-1 family of sulfotransferases. The encoded protein transfers sulfate to the C-4 hydroxyl of N-acetylgalactosamine residues in dermatan sulfate. Mutations in this gene have been associated with adducted thumb-clubfoot syndrome.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]	CHST14 (Carbohydrate (N-Acetylgalactosamine 4-0) Sulfotransferase 14) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHST14 include ehlers-danlos syndrome, musculocontractural type 1 and clubfoot. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include phosphate ion binding and N-acetylgalactosamine 4-O-sulfotransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHST13.	Catalyzes the transfer of sulfate to position 4 of the N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) residue of dermatan sulfate. Plays a pivotal role in the formation of 4-0-sulfated IdoA blocks in dermatan sulfate. Transfers sulfate to the C-4 hydroxyl of beta1,4-linked GalNAc that is substituted with an alpha-linked iduronic acid (IdoUA) at the C-3 hydroxyl. Transfers sulfate more efficiently to GalNAc residues in -IdoUA-GalNAc-IdoUA- than in -GlcUA-GalNAc-GlcUA-sequences. Has preference for partially desulfated dermatan sulfate. Addition of sulfate to GalNAc may occur immediately after epimerization of GlcUA to IdoUA. GlcUA to IdoUA. Appears to have an important role in the formation of the cerbellar neural network during postnatal brain development.	same
CHST4	This gene encodes an N-acetylglucosamine 6-O sulfotransferase. The encoded enzyme transfers sulfate from 3'phosphoadenosine 5'phospho-sulfate to the 6-hydroxyl group of N-acetylglucosamine on glycoproteins. This protein is localized to the Golgi and is involved in the modification of glycan structures on ligands of the lymphocyte homing receptor L-selectin. Alternate splicing in the 5' UTR results in multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]	CHST4 (Carbohydrate (N-Acetylglucosamine 6-O) Sulfotransferase 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Biological oxidations and Keratan sulfate/keratin metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include sulfotransferase activity and N-acetylglucosamine 6-O-sulfotransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHST2.	Sulfotransferase that utilizes 3-phospho-5-adenylyl sulfate (PAPS) as sulfonate donor to catalyze the transfer of sulfate to position 6 of non-reducing N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) residues within mucin-associated glycans that ultimately serve as SELL ligands. SELL ligands are present in high endothelial cells (HEVs) and play a central role in lymphocyte homing at sites of inflammation. Participates in biosynthesis of the SELL ligand sialyl 6-sulfo Lewis X on receptors SPN/CD43, GLYCAM1 and MADCAM1. Also involved in biosynthesis of SELL ligand recognized by MECA-79 antibody. Plays a central role in lymphocyte trafficking during chronic inflammation. Has a catalytic preference for core 2-branched mucin-type O-glycans. Can use GlcNAcbeta1-6[Galbeta1-3]GalNAc-pNP (core 2), GlcNAcbeta1-6ManOMe and GlcNAcbeta1-2Man oligosaccharide structures as acceptors. Has also activity toward core 3 of GlcNAcbeta1-3GalNAc-pNP. Its substrate specificity may be influenced by its subcellular location.	same
CHST10	This protein encoded by this gene transfers sulfate to the C-3 hydroxyl of terminal glucuronic acid of protein- and lipid-linked oligosaccharides. This protein was first identified as a sulfotransferase that acts on the human natural killer-1 (HNK-1) glycan; HNK-1 is a carbohydrate involved in neurodevelopment and synaptic plasticity.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]	CHST10 (Carbohydrate Sulfotransferase 10) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Other types of O-glycan biosynthesis and Biological oxidations. GO annotations related to this gene include sulfotransferase activity and HNK-1 sulfotransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHST13.	Catalyzes the transfer of sulfate to position 3 of terminal glucuronic acid of both protein- and lipid-linked oligosaccharides. Participates in biosynthesis of HNK-1 carbohydrate structure, a sulfated glucuronyl-lactosaminyl residue carried by many neural recognition molecules, which is involved in cell interactions during ontogenetic development and in synaptic plasticity in the adult. May be indirectly involved in synapse plasticity of the hippocampus, via its role in HNK-1 biosynthesis.	same
CHST8	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the sulfotransferase 2 family. It is predominantly expressed in the pituitary gland, and is localized to the golgi membrane. This protein catalyzes the transfer of sulfate to position 4 of non-reducing N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) residues in both N-glycans and O-glycans. It is responsible for sulfation of GalNAc on luteinizing hormone (LH), which is required for production of the sex hormones. Mice lacking this enzyme, exhibit increased levels of circulating LH, and precocious sexual maturation of both male and female mice. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	CHST8 (Carbohydrate (N-Acetylgalactosamine 4-0) Sulfotransferase 8) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHST8 include peeling skin syndrome type a and peeling skin syndrome. Among its related pathways are Biological oxidations. GO annotations related to this gene include N-acetylgalactosamine 4-O-sulfotransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHST13.	Catalyzes the transfer of sulfate to position 4 of non-reducing N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) residues in both N-glycans and O-glycans. Required for biosynthesis of glycoprotein hormones lutropin and thyrotropin, by mediating sulfation of their carbohydrate structures. Only active against terminal GalNAcbeta1,GalNAcbeta. Not active toward chondroitin.	same
CIB3	This gene product shares a high degree of sequence similarity with DNA-dependent protein kinase catalytic subunit-interacting protein 2 in human and mouse, and like them may bind the catalytic subunit of DNA-dependent protein kinases. The exact function of this gene is not known. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]	CIB3 (Calcium And Integrin Binding Family Member 3) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CHP1.	empty	same
CHST9	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the sulfotransferase 2 family. It is localized to the golgi membrane, and catalyzes the transfer of sulfate to position 4 of non-reducing N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) residues in both N-glycans and O-glycans. Sulfate groups on carbohydrates confer highly specific functions to glycoproteins, glycolipids, and proteoglycans, and are critical for cell-cell interaction, signal transduction, and embryonic development. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	CHST9 (Carbohydrate (N-Acetylgalactosamine 4-0) Sulfotransferase 9) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include N-acetylgalactosamine 4-O-sulfotransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CHST13.	Catalyzes the transfer of sulfate to position 4 of non-reducing N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) residues in both N-glycans and O-glycans. Participates in biosynthesis of glycoprotein hormones lutropin and thyrotropin, by mediating sulfation of their carbohydrate structures. Has a higher activity toward carbonic anhydrase VI than toward lutropin. Only active against terminal GalNAcbeta1,GalNAcbeta. Isoform 2, but not isoform 1, is active toward chondroitin	same
CHSY3	CSS3 is a glycosyltransferase that has both glucuronyltransferase and N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase activities (Yada et al., 2003 [PubMed 12907687]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CHSY3 (Chondroitin Sulfate Synthase 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include glucuronosyl-N-acetylgalactosaminyl-proteoglycan 4-beta-N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase activity and N-acetylgalactosaminyl-proteoglycan 3-beta-glucuronosyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is B4GALNT4.	Has both beta-1,3-glucuronic acid and beta-1,4-N-acetylgalactosamine transferase activity. Transfers glucuronic acid (GlcUA) from UDP-GlcUA and N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) from UDP-GalNAc to the non-reducing end of the elongating chondroitin polymer. Specific activity is much reduced compared to CHSY1.	same
CIB1	This gene encodes a member of the EF-hand domain-containing calcium-binding superfamily. The encoded protein interacts with many other proteins, including the platelet integrin alpha-IIb-beta-3, DNA-dependent protein kinase, presenilin-2, focal adhesion kinase, p21 activated kinase, and protein kinase D. The encoded protein may be involved in cell survival and proliferation, and is associated with several disease states including cancer and Alzheimer's disease. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2013]	CIB1 (Calcium And Integrin Binding 1 (Calmyrin)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Development Angiotensin activation of ERK. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and protein anchor. An important paralog of this gene is CHP1.	Calcium-binding protein that plays a role in the regulation of numerous cellular processes, such as cell differentiation, cell division, cell proliferation, cell migration, thrombosis, angiogenesis, cardiac hypertrophy and apoptosis. Involved in bone marrow megakaryocyte differentiation by negatively regulating thrombopoietin-mediated signaling pathway. Participates in the endomitotic cell cycle of megakaryocyte, a form of mitosis in which both karyokinesis and cytokinesis are interrupted. Plays a role in integrin signaling by negatively regulating alpha-IIb/beta3 activation in thrombin-stimulated megakaryocytes preventing platelet aggregation. Up-regulates PTK2/FAK1 activity, and is also needed for the recruitment of PTK2/FAK1 to focal adhesions; it thus appears to play an important role in focal adhesion formation. Positively regulates cell migration on fibronectin in a CDC42-dependent manner, the effect being negatively regulated by PAK1. Functions as a negative regulator of stress activated MAP kinase (MAPK) signaling pathways. Down-regulates inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor-dependent calcium signaling. Involved in sphingosine kinase SPHK1 translocation to the plasma membrane in a N-myristoylation-dependent manner preventing TNF-alpha-induced apoptosis. Regulates serine/threonine-protein kinase PLK3 activity for proper completion of cell division progression. Plays a role in microtubule (MT) dynamics during neuronal development; disrupts the MT depolymerization activity of STMN2 attenuating NGF-induced neurite outgrowth and the MT reorganization at the edge of lamellipodia. Promotes cardiomyocyte hypertrophy via activation of the calcineurin/NFAT signaling pathway. Stimulates calcineurin PPP3R1 activity by mediating its anchoring to the sarcolemma. In ischemia-induced (pathological or adaptive) angiogenesis, stimulates endothelial cell proliferation, migration and microvessel formation by activating the PAK1 and ERK1/ERK2 signaling pathway. Promotes also cancer cell survival and proliferation. May regulate cell cycle and differentiation of spermatogenic germ cells, and/or differentiation of supporting Sertoli cells	same
CHURC1	empty	CHURC1 (Churchill Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	Transcriptional activator that mediates FGF signaling during neural development. Plays a role in the regulation of cell movement (By similarity). Does not bind DNA by itself.	same
CIB4	empty	CIB4 (Calcium And Integrin Binding Family Member 4) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CHP1.	empty	same
CIB2	The protein encoded by this gene is similar to that of KIP/CIB, calcineurin B, and calmodulin. The encoded protein is a calcium-binding regulatory protein that interacts with DNA-dependent protein kinase catalytic subunits (DNA-PKcs), and it is involved in photoreceptor cell maintenance. Mutations in this gene cause deafness, autosomal recessive, 48 (DFNB48), and also Usher syndrome 1J (USH1J). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]	CIB2 (Calcium And Integrin Binding Family Member 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CIB2 include deafness, autosomal recessive 48 and usher syndrome, type ij. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CHP1.	Calcium-binding protein critical for proper photoreceptor cell maintenance and function. May play a role in calcium homeostasis and participate in calcium regulation in the mechanotransduction process (By similarity).	same
CIAPIN1	CIAPIN1 is a cytokine-induced inhibitor of apoptosis with no relation to apoptosis regulatory molecules of the BCL2 (MIM 151430) or CASP (see MIM 147678) families. Expression of CIAPIN1 is dependent on growth factor stimulation (Shibayama et al., 2004 [PubMed 14970183]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CIAPIN1 (Cytokine Induced Apoptosis Inhibitor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Cytosolic Iron-sulfur Cluster Assembly. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and 2 iron, 2 sulfur cluster binding.	Has anti-apoptotic effects in the cell. Involved in negative control of cell death upon cytokine withdrawal. Promotes development of hematopoietic cells (By similarity). Component of the cytosolic iron-sulfur (Fe-S) protein assembly (CIA) machinery. Required for the maturation of extramitochondrial Fe-S proteins. Part of an electron transfer chain functioning in an early step of cytosolic Fe-S biogenesis. Electrons are transferred to the Fe-S cluster from NADPH via the FAD- and FMN-containing protein NDOR1.	same
CHTF8	This gene encodes a short protein that forms part of the Ctf18 replication factor C (RFC) complex that occurs in both yeast and mammals. The heteroheptameric RFC complex plays a role in sister chromatid cohesion and may load the replication clamp PCNA (proliferating cell nuclear antigen) onto DNA during DNA replication and repair. This gene is ubiquitously expressed and has been shown to have reduced expression in renal and prostate tumors. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. This gene has a pseudogene on chromosome X. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]	CHTF8 (CTF8, Chromosome Transmission Fidelity Factor 8 Homolog (S. Cerevisiae)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHTF8 include prostate cancer. Among its related pathways are Gastric cancer network 2.	Potential tumor suppressor. Inhibits prostate tumor cell growth, when overexpressed.	same
CHUK	This gene encodes a member of the serine/threonine protein kinase family. The encoded protein, a component of a cytokine-activated protein complex that is an inhibitor of the essential transcription factor NF-kappa-B complex, phosphorylates sites that trigger the degradation of the inhibitor via the ubiquination pathway, thereby activating the transcription factor. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CHUK (Conserved Helix-Loop-Helix Ubiquitous Kinase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHUK include cocoon syndrome and skin papilloma. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and PI-3K cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and protein heterodimerization activity. An important paralog of this gene is IKBKB.	Serine kinase that plays an essential role in the NF-kappa-B signaling pathway which is activated by multiple stimuli such as inflammatory cytokines, bacterial or viral products, DNA damages or other cellular stresses. Acts as part of the canonical IKK complex in the conventional pathway of NF-kappa-B activation and phosphorylates inhibitors of NF-kappa-B on serine residues. These modifications allow polyubiquitination of the inhibitors and subsequent degradation by the proteasome. In turn, free NF-kappa-B is translocated into the nucleus and activates the transcription of hundreds of genes involved in immune response, growth control, or protection against apoptosis. Negatively regulates the pathway by phosphorylating the scaffold protein TAXBP1 and thus promoting the assembly of the A20/TNFAIP3 ubiquitin-editing complex (composed of A20/TNFAIP3, TAX1BP1, and the E3 ligases ITCH and RNF11). Therefore, CHUK plays a key role in the negative feedback of NF-kappa-B canonical signaling to limit inflammatory gene activation. As part of the non-canonical pathway of NF-kappa-B activation, the MAP3K14-activated CHUK/IKKA homodimer phosphorylates NFKB2/p100 associated with RelB, inducing its proteolytic processing to NFKB2/p52 and the formation of NF-kappa-B RelB-p52 complexes. In turn, these complexes regulate genes encoding molecules involved in B-cell survival and lymphoid organogenesis. Participates also in the negative feedback of the non-canonical NF-kappa-B signaling pathway by phosphorylating and destabilizing MAP3K14/NIK. Within the nucleus, phosphorylates CREBBP and consequently increases both its transcriptional and histone acetyltransferase activities. Modulates chromatin accessibility at NF-kappa-B-responsive promoters by phosphorylating histones H3 at Ser-10 that are subsequently acetylated at Lys-14 by CREBBP. Additionally, phosphorylates the CREBBP-interacting protein NCOA3.	same
CHSY1	This gene encodes a member of the chondroitin N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase family. These enzymes possess dual glucuronyltransferase and galactosaminyltransferase activity and play critical roles in the biosynthesis of chondroitin sulfate, a glycosaminoglycan involved in many biological processes including cell proliferation and morphogenesis. Decreased expression of this gene may play a role in colorectal cancer, and mutations in this gene are a cause of temtamy preaxial brachydactyly syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	CHSY1 (Chondroitin Sulfate Synthase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CHSY1 include temtamy preaxial brachydactyly syndrome and brachydactyly. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include glucuronosyl-N-acetylgalactosaminyl-proteoglycan 4-beta-N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase activity and N-acetylgalactosaminyl-proteoglycan 3-beta-glucuronosyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is B4GALNT4.	Has both beta-1,3-glucuronic acid and beta-1,4-N-acetylgalactosamine transferase activity. Transfers glucuronic acid (GlcUA) from UDP-GlcUA and N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) from UDP-GalNAc to the non-reducing end of the elongating chondroitin polymer. Involved in the negative control of osteogenesis likely through the modulation of NOTCH signaling.	same
CIDECP	empty	CIDECP (Cell Death-Inducing DFFA-Like Effector C Pseudogene) is a Pseudogene.	empty	same
CIDEC	This gene encodes a member of the cell death-inducing DNA fragmentation factor-like effector family. Members of this family play important roles in apoptosis. The encoded protein promotes lipid droplet formation in adipocytes and may mediate adipocyte apoptosis. This gene is regulated by insulin and its expression is positively correlated with insulin sensitivity. Mutations in this gene may contribute to insulin resistant diabetes. A pseudogene of this gene is located on the short arm of chromosome 3. Alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]	CIDEC (Cell Death-Inducing DFFA-Like Effector C) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CIDEC include lipodystrophy, familial partial, type 5. An important paralog of this gene is CIDEB.	Binds to lipid droplets and regulates their enlargement, thereby restricting lipolysis and favoring storage. At focal contact sites between lipid droplets, promotes directional net neutral lipid transfer from the smaller to larger lipid droplets. The transfer direction may be driven by the internal pressure difference between the contacting lipid droplet pair. Its role in neutral lipid transfer and lipid droplet enlargement is activated by the interaction with PLIN1. May act as a CEBPB coactivator in the white adipose tissue to control the expression of a subset of CEBPB downstream target genes, including SOCS1, SOCS3, TGFB1, TGFBR1, ID2 and XDH. When overexpressed in preadipocytes, induces apoptosis or increases cell susceptibility to apoptosis induced by serum deprivation or TGFB treatment. As mature adipocytes, that express high CIDEC levels, are quite resistant to apoptotic stimuli, the physiological significance of its role in apoptosis is unclear. May play a role in the modulation of the response to osmotic stress by preventing NFAT5 to translocate into the nucleus and activate its target genes expression.	same
CHTF18	CHTF18, CHTF8 (MIM 613202), and DCC1 (DSCC1; MIM 613203) are components of an alternative replication factor C (RFC) (see MIM 600404) complex that loads PCNA (MIM 176740) onto DNA during S phase of the cell cycle (Merkle et al., 2003 [PubMed 12766176]; Bermudez et al., 2003 [PubMed 12930902]).[supplied by OMIM, Dec 2009]	CHTF18 (CTF18, Chromosome Transmission Fidelity Factor 18 Homolog (S. Cerevisiae)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Gastric cancer network 2. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleoside-triphosphatase activity.	Chromosome cohesion factor involved in sister chromatid cohesion and fidelity of chromosome transmission. Component of one of the cell nuclear antigen loader complexes, CTF18-replication factor C (CTF18-RFC), which consists of CTF18, CTF8, DCC1, RFC2, RFC3, RFC4 and RFC5. The CTF18-RFC complex binds to single-stranded and primed DNAs and has weak ATPase activity that is stimulated by the presence of primed DNA, replication protein A (RPA) and by proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA). The CTF18-RFC complex catalyzes the ATP-dependent loading of PCNA onto primed and gapped DNA. It also interacts with and stimulates DNA polymerase POLH.	same
CIDEA	This gene encodes the homolog of the mouse protein Cidea that has been shown to activate apoptosis. This activation of apoptosis is inhibited by the DNA fragmentation factor DFF45 but not by caspase inhibitors. Mice that lack functional Cidea have higher metabolic rates, higher lipolysis in brown adipose tissue and higher core body temperatures when subjected to cold. These mice are also resistant to diet-induced obesity and diabetes. This suggests that in mice this gene product plays a role in thermogenesis and lipolysis. Alternatively spliced transcripts have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]	CIDEA (Cell Death-Inducing DFFA-Like Effector A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CIDEA include obesity. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity. An important paralog of this gene is CIDEB.	Acts as a CEBPB coactivator in mammary epithelial cells to control the expression of a subset of CEBPB downstream target genes, including ID2, IGF1, PRLR, SOCS1, SOCS3, XDH, but not casein. By interacting with CEBPB, strengthens the association of CEBPB with the XDH promoter, increases histone acetylation and dissociates HDAC1 from the promoter (By similarity). Binds to lipid droplets and regulates their enlargement, thereby restricting lipolysis and favoring storage. At focal contact sites between lipid droplets, promotes directional net neutral lipid transfer from the smaller to larger lipid droplets. The transfer direction may be driven by the internal pressure difference between the contacting lipid droplet pair and occurs at a lower rate than that promoted by CIDEC. When overexpressed, induces apoptosis. The physiological significance of its role in apoptosis is unclear.	same
CINP	The protein encoded by this gene is reported to be a component of the DNA replication complex as well as a genome-maintenance protein. It may interact with proteins important for replication initiation and has been shown to bind chromatin at the G1 phase of the cell cycle and dissociate from chromatin with replication initiation. It may also serve to regulate checkpoint signaling as part of the DNA damage response. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]	CINP (Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 2 Interacting Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CINP include dysthymic disorder.	Interacts with the components of the replication complex and 2 kinases, CDK2 and CDC7, thereby providing a functional and physical link between CDK2 and CDC7 during firing of the origins of replication. Regulates ATR-mediated checkpoint signaling.	same
CIDEB	empty	CIDEB (Cell Death-Inducing DFFA-Like Effector B) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CIDEC.	Activates apoptosis	same
CILP	Major alterations in the composition of the cartilage extracellular matrix occur in joint disease, such as osteoarthrosis. This gene encodes the cartilage intermediate layer protein (CILP), which increases in early osteoarthrosis cartilage. The encoded protein was thought to encode a protein precursor for two different proteins; an N-terminal CILP and a C-terminal homolog of NTPPHase, however, later studies identified no nucleotide pyrophosphatase phosphodiesterase (NPP) activity. The full-length and the N-terminal domain of this protein was shown to function as an IGF-1 antagonist. An allelic variant of this gene has been associated with lumbar disc disease. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]	CILP (Cartilage Intermediate Layer Protein, Nucleotide Pyrophosphohydrolase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CILP include lymphangitis and intervertebral disc disease. GO annotations related to this gene include alkaline phosphatase activity and nucleotide diphosphatase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CILP2.	Probably plays a role in cartilage scaffolding. May act by antagonizing TGF-beta1 (TGFB1) and IGF1 functions. Has the ability to suppress IGF1-induced proliferation and sulfated proteoglycan synthesis, and inhibits ligand-induced IGF1R autophosphorylation. May inhibit TGFB1-mediated induction of cartilage matrix genes via its interaction with TGFB1. Overexpression may lead to impair chondrocyte growth and matrix repair and indirectly promote inorganic pyrophosphate (PPi) supersaturation in aging and osteoarthritis cartilage.	same
CIITA	This gene encodes a protein with an acidic transcriptional activation domain, 4 LRRs (leucine-rich repeats) and a GTP binding domain. The protein is located in the nucleus and acts as a positive regulator of class II major histocompatibility complex gene transcription, and is referred to as the "master control factor" for the expression of these genes. The protein also binds GTP and uses GTP binding to facilitate its own transport into the nucleus. Once in the nucleus it does not bind DNA but rather uses an intrinsic acetyltransferase (AT) activity to act in a coactivator-like fashion. Mutations in this gene have been associated with bare lymphocyte syndrome type II (also known as hereditary MHC class II deficiency or HLA class II-deficient combined immunodeficiency), increased susceptibility to rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis, and possibly myocardial infarction. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2013]	CIITA (Class II, Major Histocompatibility Complex, Transactivator) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CIITA include mhc class ii deficiency and staphylococcal toxic shock syndrome. Among its related pathways are Interferon Signaling and Interferon Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include transcription coactivator activity and protein C-terminus binding. An important paralog of this gene is NLRX1.	Essential for transcriptional activity of the HLA class II promoter; activation is via the proximal promoter. No DNA binding of in vitro translated CIITA was detected. May act in a coactivator-like fashion through protein-protein interactions by contacting factors binding to the proximal MHC class II promoter, to elements of the transcription machinery, or both. Alternatively it may activate HLA class II transcription by modifying proteins that bind to the MHC class II promoter. Also mediates enhanced MHC class I transcription; the promoter element requirements for CIITA-mediated transcription are distinct from those of constitutive MHC class I transcription, and CIITA can functionally replace TAF1 at these genes. Exhibits intrinsic GTP-stimulated acetyltransferase activity. Exhibits serine/threonine protein kinase activity: can phosphorylate the TFIID component TAF7, the RAP74 subunit of the general transcription factor TFIIF, histone H2B at Ser-37 and other histones (in vitro).	same
CIAO1	empty	CIAO1 (Cytosolic Iron-Sulfur Assembly Component 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Cytosolic Iron-sulfur Cluster Assembly.	Key component of the cytosolic iron-sulfur protein assembly (CIA) complex, a multiprotein complex that mediates the incorporation of iron-sulfur cluster into extramitochondrial Fe/S proteins. Seems to specifically modulate the transactivation activity of WT1. As part of the mitotic spindle-associated MMXD complex it may play a role in chromosome segregation.	same
CIRBP	empty	CIRBP (Cold Inducible RNA Binding Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleotide binding and translation repressor activity. An important paralog of this gene is RBMXL1.	Cold-inducible mRNA binding protein that plays a protective role in the genotoxic stress response by stabilizing transcripts of genes involved in cell survival. Acts as a translational activator. Seems to play an essential role in cold-induced suppression of cell proliferation. Binds specifically to the 3-untranslated regions (3-UTRs) of stress-responsive transcripts RPA2 and TXN. Acts as a translational repressor (By similarity). Promotes assembly of stress granules (SGs), when overexpressed.	same
CIR1	empty	CIR1 (Corepressor Interacting With RBPJ, 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Development NOTCH1-mediated pathway for NF-KB activity modulation and Notch signaling pathway (KEGG). GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and RNA polymerase II distal enhancer sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity.	May modulate splice site selection during alternative splicing of pre-mRNAs (By similarity). Regulates transcription and acts as corepressor for RBPJ. Recruits RBPJ to the Sin3-histone deacetylase complex (HDAC). Required for RBPJ-mediated repression of transcription.	same
CISD1	This gene encodes a protein with a CDGSH iron-sulfur domain and has been shown to bind a redox-active [2Fe-2S] cluster. The encoded protein has been localized to the outer membrane of mitochondria and is thought to play a role in regulation of oxidation. Genes encoding similar proteins are located on chromosomes 4 and 17, and a pseudogene of this gene is located on chromosome 2. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]	CISD1 (CDGSH Iron Sulfur Domain 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CISD1 include wolfram syndrome 2. Among its related pathways are Adipogenesis. GO annotations related to this gene include 2 iron, 2 sulfur cluster binding. An important paralog of this gene is CISD2.	Plays a key role in regulating maximal capacity for electron transport and oxidative phosphorylation (By similarity). May be involved in Fe-S cluster shuttling and/or in redox reactions.	same
CISD2	The protein encoded by this gene is a zinc finger protein that localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum. The encoded protein binds an iron/sulfur cluster and may be involved in calcium homeostasis. Defects in this gene are a cause of Wolfram syndrome 2. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]	CISD2 (CDGSH Iron Sulfur Domain 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CISD2 include wolfram syndrome 2 and wolfram syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and 2 iron, 2 sulfur cluster binding. An important paralog of this gene is CISD1.	Regulator of autophagy that contributes to antagonize BECN1-mediated cellular autophagy at the endoplasmic reticulum. Participates in the interaction of BCL2 with BECN1 and is required for BCL2-mediated depression of endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) stores during autophagy. Contributes to BIK-initiated autophagy, while it is not involved in BIK-dependent activation of caspases. Involved in life span control, probably via its function as regulator of autophagy.	same
CIC	The protein encoded by this gene is an ortholog of the Drosophila melanogaster capicua gene, and is a member of the high mobility group (HMG)-box superfamily of transcriptional repressors. This protein contains a conserved HMG domain that is involved in DNA binding and nuclear localization, and a conserved C-terminus. Studies suggest that the N-terminal region of this protein interacts with Atxn1 (GeneID:6310), to form a transcription repressor complex, and in vitro studies suggest that polyglutamine-expansion of ATXN1 may alter the repressor activity of this complex. Mutations in this gene have been associated with olidogdendrogliomas (PMID:21817013). In addition, translocation events resulting in gene fusions of this gene with both DUX4 (GeneID:100288687) and FOXO4 (GeneID:4303) have been associated with round cell sarcomas. There are multiple pseudogenes of this gene found on chromosomes 1, 4, 6, 7, 16, 20, and the Y chromosome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2015]	CIC (Capicua Transcriptional Repressor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CIC include pityriasis versicolor and oligoastrocytoma. An important paralog of this gene is BBX.	Transcriptional repressor which may play a role in development of the central nervous system (CNS)	same
CISD3	CISD3 is a member of the CDGSH domain-containing family, which may play a role in regulating electron transport and oxidative phosphorylation (Wiley et al., 2007 [PubMed 17376863]).[supplied by OMIM, Apr 2008]	CISD3 (CDGSH Iron Sulfur Domain 3) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include 2 iron, 2 sulfur cluster binding.	empty	same
CILP2	empty	CILP2 (Cartilage Intermediate Layer Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include alkaline phosphatase activity and nucleotide diphosphatase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CILP.	May play a role in cartilage scaffolding.	same
CKAP2L	The protein encoded by this gene is thought to be a mitotic spindle protein important to neural stem or progenitor cells. Mutations in this gene have been associated with spindle organization defects, including mitotic spindle defects, lagging chromosomes, and chromatin bridges. There is evidence that mutations in this gene are associated with Filippi syndrome, characterized by growth defects, microcephaly, intellectual disability, facial feature defects, and syndactyly. There is a pseudogene of this gene on chromosome 20. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2015]	CKAP2L (Cytoskeleton Associated Protein 2-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CKAP2L include filippi syndrome. An important paralog of this gene is CKAP2.	Microtubule-associated protein required for mitotic spindle formation and cell-cycle progression in neural progenitor cells.	same
CIT	This gene encodes a serine/threonine-protein kinase that functions in cell division. Together with the kinesin KIF14, this protein localizes to the central spindle and midbody, and functions to promote efficient cytokinesis. This protein is involved in central nervous system development. Polymorphisms in this gene are associated with bipolar disorder and risk for schizophrenia. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	CIT (Citron Rho-Interacting Serine/Threonine Kinase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CIT include bipolar disorder and schizophrenia. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and Actin Nucleation by ARP-WASP Complex. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and SH3 domain binding. An important paralog of this gene is STK38L.	Plays a role in cytokinesis. Required for KIF14 localization to the central spindle and midbody. Putative RHO/RAC effector that binds to the GTP-bound forms of RHO and RAC1. It probably binds p21 with a tighter specificity in vivo. Displays serine/threonine protein kinase activity. Plays an important role in the regulation of cytokinesis and the development of the central nervous system. Phosphorylates MYL9/MLC2.	same
CITED4	The protein encoded by this intronless gene belongs to the CITED family of transcriptional coactivators that bind to several proteins, including CREB-binding protein (CBP) and p300, via a conserved 32 aa C-terminal motif, and regulate gene transcription. This protein also interacts with transcription factor AP2 (TFAP2), and thus may function as a co-activator for TFAP2. Hypermethylation and transcriptional downregulation of this gene has been observed in oligodendroglial tumors with deletions of chromosomal arms 1p and 19q, and associated with longer recurrence-free and overall survival of patients with oligodendroglial tumors. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	CITED4 (Cbp/P300-Interacting Transactivator, With Glu/Asp-Rich Carboxy-Terminal Domain, 4) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include transcription coactivator activity. An important paralog of this gene is CITED1.	Acts as transcriptional coactivator for TFAP2/AP-2. Enhances estrogen-dependent transactivation mediated by estrogen receptors. May function as an inhibitor of transactivation by HIF1A by disrupting HIF1A interaction with CREBBP. May be involved in regulation of gene expression during development and differentiation of blood cells, endothelial cells and mammary epithelial cells.	same
CISH	The protein encoded by this gene contains a SH2 domain and a SOCS box domain. The protein thus belongs to the cytokine-induced STAT inhibitor (CIS), also known as suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS) or STAT-induced STAT inhibitor (SSI), protein family. CIS family members are known to be cytokine-inducible negative regulators of cytokine signaling. The expression of this gene can be induced by IL2, IL3, GM-CSF and EPO in hematopoietic cells. Proteasome-mediated degradation of this protein has been shown to be involved in the inactivation of the erythropoietin receptor. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]	CISH (Cytokine Inducible SH2-Containing Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CISH include bacteremia and placental insufficiency. Among its related pathways are TGF-Beta Pathway and Kit Receptor Signaling Pathway. An important paralog of this gene is SOCS2.	SOCS family proteins form part of a classical negative feedback system that regulates cytokine signal transduction. CIS is involved in the negative regulation of cytokines that signal through the JAK-STAT5 pathway such as erythropoietin, prolactin and interleukin 3 (IL3) receptor. Inhibits STAT5 trans-activation by suppressing its tyrosine phosphorylation. May be a substrate-recognition component of a SCF-like ECS (Elongin BC-CUL2/5-SOCS-box protein) E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex which mediates the ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of target proteins (By similarity).	same
CKAP2	This gene encodes a cytoskeleton-associated protein that stabalizes microtubules and plays a role in the regulation of cell division. The encoded protein is itself regulated through phosphorylation at multiple serine and threonine residues. There is a pseudogene of this gene on chromosome 14. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variations. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2013]	CKAP2 (Cytoskeleton Associated Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CKAP2 include inclusion conjunctivitis. An important paralog of this gene is CKAP2L.	Possesses microtubule stabilizing properties. Involved in regulating aneuploidy, cell cycling, and cell death in a p53/TP53-dependent manner (By similarity).	same
CITED2	The protein encoded by this gene inhibits transactivation of HIF1A-induced genes by competing with binding of hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha to p300-CH1. Mutations in this gene are a cause of cardiac septal defects. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]	CITED2 (Cbp/P300-Interacting Transactivator, With Glu/Asp-Rich Carboxy-Terminal Domain, 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CITED2 include ventricular septal defect 2 and atrial septal defect 8. Among its related pathways are HIF-2-alpha transcription factor network and HIF-1-alpha transcription factor network. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and transcription coactivator activity. An important paralog of this gene is CITED4.	Transcriptional coactivator of the p300/CBP-mediated trancription complex. Acts as a bridge, linking TFAP2 transcription factors and the p300/CBP transcriptional coactivator complex in order to stimulate TFAP2-mediated transcriptional activation. Positively regulates TGF-beta signaling through its association with the SMAD/p300/CBP-mediated transcriptional coactivator complex. Stimulates the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors PPARA transcriptional activity. Enhances estrogen-dependent transactivation mediated by estrogen receptors. Acts also as a transcriptional corepressor; interferes with the binding of the transcription factors HIF1A or STAT2 and the p300/CBP transcriptional coactivator complex. Participates in sex determination and early gonad development by stimulating transcription activation of SRY. Plays a role in controlling left-right patterning during embryogenesis; potentiates transcriptional activation of NODAL-mediated gene transcription in the left lateral plate mesoderm (LPM). Plays an essential role in differentiation of the adrenal cortex from the adrenogonadal primordium (AGP); stimulates WT1-mediated transcription activation thereby up-regulating the nuclear hormone receptor NR5A1 promoter activity. Associates with chromatin to the PITX2 P1 promoter region.	same
CKAP4	empty	CKAP4 (Cytoskeleton-Associated Protein 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CKAP4 include steroid-induced glaucoma and split foot. Among its related pathways are Protein processing in endoplasmic reticulum.	High-affinity epithelial cell surface receptor for APF	same
CKAP5	This gene encodes a cytoskeleton-associated protein which belongs to the TOG/XMAP215 family. The N-terminal half of this protein contains a microtubule-binding domain and the C-terminal half contains a KXGS motif for binding tubulin dimers. This protein has two distinct roles in spindle formation; it protects kinetochore microtubules from depolymerization and plays an essential role in centrosomal microtubule assembly. This protein may be necessary for the proper interaction of microtubules with the cell cortex for directional cell movement. It also plays a role in translation of the myelin basic protein (MBP) mRNA by interacting with heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein (hnRNP) A2, which associates with MBP. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	CKAP5 (Cytoskeleton Associated Protein 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic.	Binds to the plus end of microtubules and regulates microtubule dynamics and microtubule organization. Promotes cytoplasmic microtubule nucleation and elongation. Plays a major role in organizing spindle poles.	same
CITED1	This gene encodes a member of the CREB-binding protein/p300-interacting transactivator with Asp/Glu-rich C-terminal domain (CITED) family of proteins. The encoded protein, also known as melanocyte-specific gene 1, may function as a transcriptional coactivator and may play a role in pigmentation of melanocytes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]	CITED1 (Cbp/P300-Interacting Transactivator, With Glu/Asp-Rich Carboxy-Terminal Domain, 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Regulation of nuclear SMAD2/3 signaling and TGF-beta Receptor Signaling Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and chromatin binding. An important paralog of this gene is CITED4.	Transcriptional coactivator of the p300/CBP-mediated trancription complex. Enhances SMAD-mediated transcription by strengthening the functional link between the DNA-binding SMAD transcription factors and the p300/CBP transcription coactivator complex. Stimulates estrogen-dependent transactivation activity mediated by estrogen receptors signaling; stabilizes the interaction of estrogen receptor ESR1 and histone acetyltransferase EP300. Positively regulates TGF-beta signaling through its association with the SMAD/p300/CBP-mediated transcriptional coactivator complex. Induces transcription from estrogen-responsive promoters and protection against cell death. Potentiates EGR2-mediated transcriptional activation activity from the ERBB2 promoter. Acts as an inhibitor of osteoblastic mineralization through a cAMP-dependent parathyroid hormone receptor signaling. May play a role in pigmentation of melanocytes. Associates with chromatin to the estrogen-responsive TGF-alpha promoter region in a estrogen-dependent manner.	same
CKMT1B	Mitochondrial creatine (MtCK) kinase is responsible for the transfer of high energy phosphate from mitochondria to the cytosolic carrier, creatine. It belongs to the creatine kinase isoenzyme family. It exists as two isoenzymes, sarcomeric MtCK and ubiquitous MtCK, encoded by separate genes. Mitochondrial creatine kinase occurs in two different oligomeric forms: dimers and octamers, in contrast to the exclusively dimeric cytosolic creatine kinase isoenzymes. Many malignant cancers with poor prognosis have shown overexpression of ubiquitous mitochondrial creatine kinase; this may be related to high energy turnover and failure to eliminate cancer cells via apoptosis. Ubiquitous mitochondrial creatine kinase has 80% homology with the coding exons of sarcomeric mitochondrial creatine kinase. Two genes located near each other on chromosome 15 have been identified which encode identical mitochondrial creatine kinase proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CKMT1B (Creatine Kinase, Mitochondrial 1B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CKMT1B include prostate rhabdomyosarcoma. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Arginine and proline metabolism. An important paralog of this gene is CKB.	Reversibly catalyzes the transfer of phosphate between ATP and various phosphogens (e.g. creatine phosphate). Creatine kinase isoenzymes play a central role in energy transduction in tissues with large, fluctuating energy demands, such as skeletal muscle, heart, brain and spermatozoa	same
CIRH1A	This gene encodes a WD40-repeat-containing protein that is localized to the nucleolus. Mutation of this gene causes North American Indian childhood cirrhosis, a severe intrahepatic cholestasis that results in transient neonatal jaundice, and progresses to periportal fibrosis and cirrhosis in childhood and adolescence. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CIRH1A (Cirrhosis, Autosomal Recessive 1A (Cirhin)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CIRH1A include cirrhosis, north american indian childhood type and hereditary north american indian childhood cirrhosis. Among its related pathways are Ribosome biogenesis in eukaryotes.	May be a transcriptional regulator. Acts as a positive regulator of HIVEP1 which specifically binds to the DNA sequence 5-GGGACTTTCC-3 found in enhancer elements of numerous viral promoters such as those of HIV-1, SV40, or CMV. Ribosome biogenesis factor involved in small subunit (SSU) pre-rRNA processing at sites A, A0, 1 and 2b.	same
CKB	The protein encoded by this gene is a cytoplasmic enzyme involved in energy homeostasis. The encoded protein reversibly catalyzes the transfer of phosphate between ATP and various phosphogens such as creatine phosphate. It acts as a homodimer in brain as well as in other tissues, and as a heterodimer with a similar muscle isozyme in heart. The encoded protein is a member of the ATP:guanido phosphotransferase protein family. A pseudogene of this gene has been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CKB (Creatine Kinase, Brain) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CKB include prostate rhabdomyosarcoma and brain ischemia. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Arginine and proline metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include creatine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CKMT1B.	Reversibly catalyzes the transfer of phosphate between ATP and various phosphogens (e.g. creatine phosphate). Creatine kinase isoenzymes play a central role in energy transduction in tissues with large, fluctuating energy demands, such as skeletal muscle, heart, brain and spermatozoa	same
CLCA1	This gene encodes a member of the calcium sensitive chloride conductance protein family. To date, all members of this gene family map to the same region on chromosome 1p31-p22 and share a high degree of homology in size, sequence, and predicted structure, but differ significantly in their tissue distributions. The encoded protein is expressed as a precursor protein that is processed into two cell-surface-associated subunits, although the site at which the precursor is cleaved has not been precisely determined. The encoded protein may be involved in mediating calcium-activated chloride conductance in the intestine. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CLCA1 (Chloride Channel Accessory 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLCA1 include meconium ileus and pulmonary disease, chronic obstructive. Among its related pathways are Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include chloride channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLCA4.	May be involved in mediating calcium-activated chloride conductance. May play critical roles in goblet cell metaplasia, mucus hypersecretion, cystic fibrosis and AHR. May be involved in the regulation of mucus production and/or secretion by goblet cells. Involved in the regulation of tissue inflammation in the innate immune response. May play a role as a tumor suppressor. Induces MUC5AC.	same
CLCA2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the calcium sensitive chloride conductance protein family. To date, all members of this gene family map to the same site on chromosome 1p31-p22 and share high degrees of homology in size, sequence and predicted structure, but differ significantly in their tissue distributions. Since this protein is expressed predominantly in trachea and lung, it is suggested to play a role in the complex pathogenesis of cystic fibrosis. It may also serve as adhesion molecule for lung metastatic cancer cells, mediating vascular arrest and colonization, and furthermore, it has been implicated to act as a tumor suppressor gene for breast cancer. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CLCA2 (Chloride Channel Accessory 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLCA2 include bestrophinopathy and cystic fibrosis. Among its related pathways are Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include chloride channel activity and ligand-gated ion channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLCA1.	Plays a role in modulating chloride current across the plasma membrane in a calcium-dependent manner, and cell adhesion. Involved in basal cell adhesion and/or stratification of squamous epithelia. May act as a tumor suppressor in breast and colorectal cancer. Plays a key role for cell adhesion in the beginning stages of lung metastasis via the binding to ITGB4.	same
CKLF	The product of this gene is a cytokine. Cytokines are small proteins that have an essential role in the immune and inflammatory responses. This gene is one of several chemokine-like factor genes located in a cluster on chromosome 16. The protein encoded by this gene is a potent chemoattractant for neutrophils, monocytes and lymphocytes. It also can stimulate the proliferation of skeletal muscle cells. This protein may play important roles in inflammation and in the regeneration of skeletal muscle. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. Naturally occurring read-through transcription occurs between this locus and the neighboring locus CMTM1 (CKLF-like MARVEL transmembrane domain containing 1).[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]	CKLF (Chemokine-Like Factor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CKLF include ovarian cystadenoma. GO annotations related to this gene include chemokine activity. An important paralog of this gene is CMTM1.	May play an important role in inflammation and regeneration of skeletal muscle. Partly inhibited by interleukin 10.	same
CKMT1A	Mitochondrial creatine (MtCK) kinase is responsible for the transfer of high energy phosphate from mitochondria to the cytosolic carrier, creatine. It belongs to the creatine kinase isoenzyme family. It exists as two isoenzymes, sarcomeric MtCK and ubiquitous MtCK, encoded by separate genes. Mitochondrial creatine kinase occurs in two different oligomeric forms: dimers and octamers, in contrast to the exclusively dimeric cytosolic creatine kinase isoenzymes. Many malignant cancers with poor prognosis have shown overexpression of ubiquitous mitochondrial creatine kinase; this may be related to high energy turnover and failure to eliminate cancer cells via apoptosis. Ubiquitous mitochondrial creatine kinase has 80% homology with the coding exons of sarcomeric mitochondrial creatine kinase. Two genes located near each other on chromosome 15 have been identified which encode identical mitochondrial creatine kinase proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CKMT1A (Creatine Kinase, Mitochondrial 1A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CKMT1A include prostate rhabdomyosarcoma. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Arginine and proline metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include creatine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CKB.	Reversibly catalyzes the transfer of phosphate between ATP and various phosphogens (e.g. creatine phosphate). Creatine kinase isoenzymes play a central role in energy transduction in tissues with large, fluctuating energy demands, such as skeletal muscle, heart, brain and spermatozoa	same
CIZ1	The protein encoded by this gene is a zinc finger DNA binding protein that interacts with CIP1, part of a complex with cyclin E. The encoded protein may regulate the cellular localization of CIP1. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]	CIZ1 (CDKN1A Interacting Zinc Finger Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CIZ1 include cervical dystonia. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleic acid binding and cyclin binding.	May regulate the subcellular localization of CIP/WAF1	same
CLASP2	empty	CLASP2 (Cytoplasmic Linker Associated Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are L1CAM interactions and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include microtubule plus-end binding and galactoside 2-alpha-L-fucosyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLASP1.	Microtubule plus-end tracking protein that promotes the stabilization of dynamic microtubules. Involved in the nucleation of noncentrosomal microtubules originating from the trans-Golgi network (TGN). Required for the polarization of the cytoplasmic microtubule arrays in migrating cells towards the leading edge of the cell. May act at the cell cortex to enhance the frequency of rescue of depolymerizing microtubules by attaching their plus-ends to cortical platforms composed of ERC1 and PHLDB2. This cortical microtubule stabilizing activity is regulated at least in part by phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase signaling. Also performs a similar stabilizing function at the kinetochore which is essential for the bipolar alignment of chromosomes on the mitotic spindle. Acts as a mediator of ERBB2-dependent stabilization of microtubules at the cell cortex.	same
CKM	The protein encoded by this gene is a cytoplasmic enzyme involved in energy homeostasis and is an important serum marker for myocardial infarction. The encoded protein reversibly catalyzes the transfer of phosphate between ATP and various phosphogens such as creatine phosphate. It acts as a homodimer in striated muscle as well as in other tissues, and as a heterodimer with a similar brain isozyme in heart. The encoded protein is a member of the ATP:guanido phosphotransferase protein family. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CKM (Creatine Kinase, Muscle) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CKM include hemophilia b and myocardial infarction. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Arginine and proline metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include creatine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CKB.	Reversibly catalyzes the transfer of phosphate between ATP and various phosphogens (e.g. creatine phosphate). Creatine kinase isoenzymes play a central role in energy transduction in tissues with large, fluctuating energy demands, such as skeletal muscle, heart, brain and spermatozoa	same
CLASP1	CLASPs, such as CLASP1, are nonmotor microtubule-associated proteins that interact with CLIPs (e.g., CLIP170; MIM 179838). CLASP1 is involved in the regulation of microtubule dynamics at the kinetochore and throughout the spindle (Maiato et al., 2003 [PubMed 12837247]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CLASP1 (Cytoplasmic Linker Associated Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are L1CAM interactions and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include microtubule binding and kinetochore binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLASP2.	Microtubule plus-end tracking protein that promotes the stabilization of dynamic microtubules. Involved in the nucleation of noncentrosomal microtubules originating from the trans-Golgi network (TGN). Required for the polarization of the cytoplasmic microtubule arrays in migrating cells towards the leading edge of the cell. May act at the cell cortex to enhance the frequency of rescue of depolymerizing microtubules by attaching their plus-ends to cortical platforms composed of ERC1 and PHLDB2. This cortical microtubule stabilizing activity is regulated at least in part by phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase signaling. Also performs a similar stabilizing function at the kinetochore which is essential for the bipolar alignment of chromosomes on the mitotic spindle.	same
CKMT2	Mitochondrial creatine kinase (MtCK) is responsible for the transfer of high energy phosphate from mitochondria to the cytosolic carrier, creatine. It belongs to the creatine kinase isoenzyme family. It exists as two isoenzymes, sarcomeric MtCK and ubiquitous MtCK, encoded by separate genes. Mitochondrial creatine kinase occurs in two different oligomeric forms: dimers and octamers, in contrast to the exclusively dimeric cytosolic creatine kinase isoenzymes. Sarcomeric mitochondrial creatine kinase has 80% homology with the coding exons of ubiquitous mitochondrial creatine kinase. This gene contains sequences homologous to several motifs that are shared among some nuclear genes encoding mitochondrial proteins and thus may be essential for the coordinated activation of these genes during mitochondrial biogenesis. Three transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CKMT2 (Creatine Kinase, Mitochondrial 2 (Sarcomeric)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CKMT2 include prostate rhabdomyosarcoma. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Arginine and proline metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include creatine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CKB.	Reversibly catalyzes the transfer of phosphate between ATP and various phosphogens (e.g. creatine phosphate). Creatine kinase isoenzymes play a central role in energy transduction in tissues with large, fluctuating energy demands, such as skeletal muscle, heart, brain and spermatozoa	same
CLCA3P	This gene is a transcribed pseudogene belonging to the calcium sensitive chloride conductance protein family. To date, all members of this gene family map to the same site on chromosome 1p31-p22 and share high degrees of homology in size, sequence and predicted structure, but differ significantly in their tissue distributions. This gene contains several nonsense codons compared to other family members that render the transcript a candidate for nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD). Therefore, this gene is unlikely to be protein-coding. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]	CLCA3P (Chloride Channel Accessory 3, Pseudogene) is a Pseudogene. Among its related pathways are Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity and chloride channel activity.	empty	same
CLCF1	This gene is a member of the glycoprotein (gp)130 cytokine family and encodes cardiotrophin-like cytokine factor 1 (CLCF1). CLCF1 forms a heterodimer complex with cytokine receptor-like factor 1 (CRLF1). This dimer competes with ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) for binding to the ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor (CNTFR) complex, and activates the Jak-STAT signaling cascade. CLCF1 can be actively secreted from cells by forming a complex with soluble type I CRLF1 or soluble CNTFR. CLCF1 is a potent neurotrophic factor, B-cell stimulatory agent and neuroendocrine modulator of pituitary corticotroph function. Defects in CLCF1 cause cold-induced sweating syndrome 2 (CISS2). This syndrome is characterized by a profuse sweating after exposure to cold as well as congenital physical abnormalities of the head and spine. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]	CLCF1 (Cardiotrophin-Like Cytokine Factor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLCF1 include cold-induced sweating syndrome 2 and cold-induced sweating syndrome. Among its related pathways are PEDF Induced Signaling and Translation Insulin regulation of translation. GO annotations related to this gene include protein heterodimerization activity and cytokine activity.	Cytokine with B-cell stimulating capability. Binds to and activates the ILST/gp130 receptor.	same
CKS1B	CKS1B protein binds to the catalytic subunit of the cyclin dependent kinases and is essential for their biological function. The CKS1B mRNA is found to be expressed in different patterns through the cell cycle in HeLa cells, which reflects a specialized role for the encoded protein. At least two transcript variants have been identified for this gene, and it appears that only one of them encodes a protein. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008]	CKS1B (CDC28 Protein Kinase Regulatory Subunit 1B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CKS1B include mantle cell lymphoma. Among its related pathways are Pathways in cancer and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase regulator activity. An important paralog of this gene is CKS2.	Binds to the catalytic subunit of the cyclin dependent kinases and is essential for their biological function	same
CLCN2	This gene encodes a voltage-gated chloride channel. The encoded protein is a transmembrane protein that maintains chloride ion homeostasis in various cells. Defects in this gene may be a cause of certain epilepsies. Four transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]	CLCN2 (Chloride Channel, Voltage-Sensitive 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLCN2 include epilepsy, idiopathic generalized 11 and leukoencephalopathy with ataxia. Among its related pathways are Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include voltage-gated chloride channel activity and adenyl nucleotide binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLCN7.	Voltage-gated chloride channel. Chloride channels have several functions including the regulation of cell volume; membrane potential stabilization, signal transduction and transepithelial transport.	same
CLCA4	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the calcium sensitive chloride conductance protein family. To date, all members of this gene family map to the same site on chromosome 1p31-p22 and share high degrees of homology in size, sequence and predicted structure, but differ significantly in their tissue distributions. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, only one of which is thought to be protein coding. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]	CLCA4 (Chloride Channel Accessory 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLCA4 include cystic fibrosis and bestrophinopathy. Among its related pathways are Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include chloride channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLCA1.	May be involved in mediating calcium-activated chloride conductance	same
CLCN1	The CLCN family of voltage-dependent chloride channel genes comprises nine members (CLCN1-7, Ka and Kb) which demonstrate quite diverse functional characteristics while sharing significant sequence homology. The protein encoded by this gene regulates the electric excitability of the skeletal muscle membrane. Mutations in this gene cause two forms of inherited human muscle disorders: recessive generalized myotonia congenita (Becker) and dominant myotonia (Thomsen). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]	CLCN1 (Chloride Channel, Voltage-Sensitive 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLCN1 include myotonia congenita, recessive and myotonia congenita, dominant. Among its related pathways are Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include chloride channel activity and adenyl nucleotide binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLCN7.	Voltage-gated chloride channel. Chloride channels have several functions including the regulation of cell volume; membrane potential stabilization, signal transduction and transepithelial transport	same
CLCN4	The CLCN family of voltage-dependent chloride channel genes comprises nine members (CLCN1-7, Ka and Kb) which demonstrate quite diverse functional characteristics while sharing significant sequence homology. Chloride channel 4 has an evolutionary conserved CpG island and is conserved in both mouse and hamster. This gene is mapped in close proximity to APXL (Apical protein Xenopus laevis-like) and OA1 (Ocular albinism type I), which are both located on the human X chromosome at band p22.3. The physiological role of chloride channel 4 remains unknown but may contribute to the pathogenesis of neuronal disorders. Alternate splicing results in two transcript variants that encode different proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]	CLCN4 (Chloride Channel, Voltage-Sensitive 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLCN4 include ocular albinism and dent disease. Among its related pathways are Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include chloride channel activity and antiporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLCN7.	Proton-coupled chloride transporter. Functions as antiport system and exchanges chloride ions against protons.	same
CLCN3	This gene encodes a member of the voltage-gated chloride channel (ClC) family. The encoded protein is present in all cell types and localized in plasma membranes and in intracellular vesicles. It is a multi-pass membrane protein which contains a ClC domain and two additional C-terminal CBS (cystathionine beta-synthase) domains. The ClC domain catalyzes the selective flow of Cl- ions across cell membranes, and the CBS domain may have a regulatory function. This protein plays a role in both acidification and transmitter loading of GABAergic synaptic vesicles, and in smooth muscle cell activation and neointima formation. This protein is required for lysophosphatidic acid (LPA)-activated Cl- current activity and fibroblast-to-myofibroblast differentiation. The protein activity is regulated by Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) in glioma cells. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	CLCN3 (Chloride Channel, Voltage-Sensitive 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and PDZ domain binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLCN7.	Mediates the exchange of chloride ions against protons. Functions as antiporter and contributes to the acidification of the endosome and synaptic vesicle lumen, and may thereby affect vesicle trafficking and exocytosis. May play an important role in neuronal cell function through regulation of membrane excitability by protein kinase C. It could help neuronal cells to establish short-term memory.	same
CLCC1	empty	CLCC1 (Chloride Channel CLIC-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	Seems to act as a chloride ion channel.	same
CLCN6	This gene encodes a member of the voltage-dependent chloride channel protein family. Members of this family can function as either chloride channels or antiporters. This protein is primarily localized to late endosomes and functions as a chloride/proton antiporter. Alternate splicing results in both coding and non-coding variants. Additional alternately spliced variants have been described but their full-length structure is unknown. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]	CLCN6 (Chloride Channel, Voltage-Sensitive 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include voltage-gated chloride channel activity and antiporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLCN7.	Chloride transport protein, initially identified as voltage-gated chloride channel. The presence of the conserved gating glutamate residues suggests that is functions as antiporter	same
CLCN5	This gene encodes a member of the ClC family of chloride ion channels and ion transporters. The encoded protein is primarily localized to endosomal membranes and may function to facilitate albumin uptake by the renal proximal tubule. Mutations in this gene have been found in Dent disease and renal tubular disorders complicated by nephrolithiasis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]	CLCN5 (Chloride Channel, Voltage-Sensitive 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLCN5 include dent disease and hypophosphatemic rickets. Among its related pathways are Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include chloride channel activity and antiporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLCN7.	Proton-coupled chloride transporter. Functions as antiport system and exchanges chloride ions against protons. Important for normal acidification of the endosome lumen. May play an important role in renal tubular function	same
CLC	Lysophospholipases are enzymes that act on biological membranes to regulate the multifunctional lysophospholipids. The protein encoded by this gene is a lysophospholipase expressed in eosinophils and basophils. It hydrolyzes lysophosphatidylcholine to glycerophosphocholine and a free fatty acid. This protein may possess carbohydrate or IgE-binding activities. It is both structurally and functionally related to the galectin family of beta-galactoside binding proteins. It may be associated with inflammation and some myeloid leukemias. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CLC (Charcot-Leyden Crystal Galectin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLC include cold-induced sweating syndrome 2. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding and cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process. An important paralog of this gene is LGALS14.	Regulates immune responses through the recognition of cell-surface glycans. Essential for the anergy and suppressive function of CD25-positive regulatory T-cells (Treg).	same
CLCNKA	This gene is a member of the CLC family of voltage-gated chloride channels. The encoded protein is predicted to have 12 transmembrane domains, and requires a beta subunit called barttin to form a functional channel. It is thought to function in salt reabsorption in the kidney and potassium recycling in the inner ear. The gene is highly similar to CLCNKB, which is located 10 kb downstream from this gene. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CLCNKA (Chloride Channel, Voltage-Sensitive Ka) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLCNKA include bartter syndrome, type 4b, digenic and bartter syndrome type 4. Among its related pathways are Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA and Diuretics Pathway, Pharmacodynamics. GO annotations related to this gene include voltage-gated chloride channel activity and adenyl nucleotide binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLCN7.	Voltage-gated chloride channel. Chloride channels have several functions including the regulation of cell volume; membrane potential stabilization, signal transduction and transepithelial transport. May be important in urinary concentrating mechanisms	same
CLDN10	This gene encodes a member of the claudin family. Claudins are integral membrane proteins and components of tight junction strands. Tight junction strands serve as a physical barrier to prevent solutes and water from passing freely through the paracellular space between epithelial or endothelial cell sheets, and also play critical roles in maintaining cell polarity and signal transductions. The expression level of this gene is associated with recurrence of primary hepatocellular carcinoma. Six alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been reported, but the transcript sequences of some variants are not determined.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	CLDN10 (Claudin 10) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLDN10 include hepatocellular carcinoma. Among its related pathways are Integrin Pathway and Cell junction organization. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and structural molecule activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLDN15.	Plays a major role in tight junction-specific obliteration of the intercellular space, through calcium-independent cell-adhesion activity. May form permselective paracellular pores; isoform 1 appears to create pores preferentially permeable to cations and isoform 2 for anions. Plays a key role in controlling cation selectivity and transport in the thick ascending limb (TAL) of Henles loop in kidney.	same
CLCN7	The product of this gene belongs to the CLC chloride channel family of proteins. Chloride channels play important roles in the plasma membrane and in intracellular organelles. This gene encodes chloride channel 7. Defects in this gene are the cause of osteopetrosis autosomal recessive type 4 (OPTB4), also called infantile malignant osteopetrosis type 2 as well as the cause of autosomal dominant osteopetrosis type 2 (OPTA2), also called autosomal dominant Albers-Schonberg disease or marble disease autosoml dominant. Osteopetrosis is a rare genetic disease characterized by abnormally dense bone, due to defective resorption of immature bone. OPTA2 is the most common form of osteopetrosis, occurring in adolescence or adulthood. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CLCN7 (Chloride Channel, Voltage-Sensitive 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLCN7 include osteopetrosis, autosomal dominant 2 and osteopetrosis, autosomal recessive 4. Among its related pathways are Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include chloride channel activity and antiporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLCN2.	Slowly voltage-gated channel mediating the exchange of chloride ions against protons. Functions as antiporter and contributes to the acidification of the lysosome lumen.	same
CLDN14	Tight junctions represent one mode of cell-to-cell adhesion in epithelial or endothelial cell sheets, forming continuous seals around cells and serving as a physical barrier to prevent solutes and water from passing freely through the paracellular space. These junctions are comprised of sets of continuous networking strands in the outwardly facing cytoplasmic leaflet, with complementary grooves in the inwardly facing extracytoplasmic leaflet. The protein encoded by this gene, a member of the claudin family, is an integral membrane protein and a component of tight junction strands. The encoded protein also binds specifically to the WW domain of Yes-associated protein. Defects in this gene are the cause of an autosomal recessive form of nonsyndromic sensorineural deafness. It is also reported that four synonymous variants in this gene are associated with kidney stones and reduced bone mineral density. Several transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	CLDN14 (Claudin 14) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLDN14 include deafness, autosomal recessive 29 and dfnb29 nonsyndromic hearing loss and deafness. Among its related pathways are Integrin Pathway and Cell junction organization. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and structural molecule activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLDN9.	Plays a major role in tight junction-specific obliteration of the intercellular space, through calcium-independent cell-adhesion activity.	same
CLDN15	This gene encodes a member of the claudin family. Claudins are integral membrane proteins and components of tight junction strands. Tight junction strands serve as a physical barrier to prevent solutes and water from passing freely through the paracellular space between epithelial or endothelial cell sheets, and also play critical roles in maintaining cell polarity and signal transductions. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	CLDN15 (Claudin 15) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLDN15 include malignant peritoneal mesothelioma. Among its related pathways are Integrin Pathway and Cell junction organization. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and structural molecule activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLDN18.	Claudins function as major constituents of the tight junction complexes that regulate the permeability of epithelia. While some claudin family members function as impermeable barriers, others mediate the permeability to ions and small molecules. Often, several claudin family members are coexpressed and interact with each other, and this determines the overall permeability. CLDN15 forms tight junctions that mediate the paracellular transport of small monovalent cations along a concentration gradient, due to selective permeability for Na(+), Li(+) and K(+) ions, but selects against Cl(-) ions. Plays an important role in paracellular Na(+) transport in the intestine and in Na(+) homeostasis. Required for normal Na(+)-dependent intestinal nutrient uptake.	same
CLCNKB	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the family of voltage-gated chloride channels. Chloride channels have several functions, including the regulation of cell volume, membrane potential stabilization, signal transduction and transepithelial transport. This gene is expressed predominantly in the kidney and may be important for renal salt reabsorption. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal recessive Bartter syndrome type 3 (BS3). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]	CLCNKB (Chloride Channel, Voltage-Sensitive Kb) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLCNKB include bartter syndrome, type 3 and bartter syndrome, type 4b, digenic. Among its related pathways are Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA and Diuretics Pathway, Pharmacodynamics. GO annotations related to this gene include voltage-gated chloride channel activity and adenyl nucleotide binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLCN7.	Voltage-gated chloride channel. Chloride channels have several functions including the regulation of cell volume; membrane potential stabilization, signal transduction and transepithelial transport. May be important in urinary concentrating mechanisms.	same
CKS2	CKS2 protein binds to the catalytic subunit of the cyclin dependent kinases and is essential for their biological function. The CKS2 mRNA is found to be expressed in different patterns through the cell cycle in HeLa cells, which reflects specialized role for the encoded protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CKS2 (CDC28 Protein Kinase Regulatory Subunit 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Pathways in cancer and Small cell lung cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase regulator activity. An important paralog of this gene is CKS1B.	Binds to the catalytic subunit of the cyclin dependent kinases and is essential for their biological function	same
CLDN18	This gene encodes a member of the claudin family. Claudins are integral membrane proteins and components of tight junction strands. Tight junction strands serve as a physical barrier to prevent solutes and water from passing freely through the paracellular space between epithelial or endothelial cell sheets, and also play critical roles in maintaining cell polarity and signal transductions. This gene is upregulated in patients with ulcerative colitis and highly overexpressed in infiltrating ductal adenocarcinomas. PKC/MAPK/AP-1 (protein kinase C/mitogen-activated protein kinase/activator protein-1) dependent pathway regulates the expression of this gene in gastric cells. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	CLDN18 (Claudin 18) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLDN18 include ulcerative colitis and colitis. Among its related pathways are Integrin Pathway and Cell junction organization. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and structural molecule activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLDN15.	Plays a major role in tight junction-specific obliteration of the intercellular space, through calcium-independent cell-adhesion activity.	same
CLDN17	This gene encodes a member of the claudin family. Claudins are integral membrane proteins and components of tight junction strands. Tight junction strands serve as a physical barrier to prevent solutes and water from passing freely through the paracellular space between epithelial or endothelial cell sheets, and also play critical roles in maintaining cell polarity and signal transductions. This gene is intronless and is clustered with CLDN8 on chromosome 21q22.11. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	CLDN17 (Claudin 17) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Integrin Pathway and Cell junction organization. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and structural molecule activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLDN9.	Plays a major role in tight junction-specific obliteration of the intercellular space, through calcium-independent cell-adhesion activity.	same
CLDN11	This gene encodes a member of the claudin family. Claudins are integral membrane proteins and components of tight junction strands. Tight junction strands serve as a physical barrier to prevent solutes and water from passing freely through the paracellular space between epithelial or endothelial cell sheets, and also play critical roles in maintaining cell polarity and signal transductions. The protein encoded by this gene is a major component of central nervous system (CNS) myelin and plays an important role in regulating proliferation and migration of oligodendrocytes. Mouse studies showed that the gene deficiency results in deafness and loss of the Sertoli cell epithelial phenotype in the testis. This protein is a tight junction protein at the human blood-testis barrier (BTB), and the BTB disruption is related to a dysfunction of this gene. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]	CLDN11 (Claudin 11) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLDN11 include microcystic adenoma. Among its related pathways are Integrin Pathway and Cell junction organization. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and structural molecule activity.	Plays a major role in tight junction-specific obliteration of the intercellular space, through calcium-independent cell-adhesion activity.	same
CLDN22	This gene encodes a member of the claudin family. Claudins are integral membrane proteins and components of tight junction strands. Tight junction strands serve as a physical barrier to prevent solutes and water from passing freely through the paracellular space between epithelial or endothelial cell sheets, and also play critical roles in maintaining cell polarity and signal transductions. This gene is intronless and overlaps the 3' UTR of the WWC2 gene (GeneID: 80014) on the opposite strand. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]	CLDN22 (Claudin 22) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell junction organization and Cell junction organization. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and structural molecule activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLDN15.	Plays a major role in tight junction-specific obliteration of the intercellular space, through calcium-independent cell-adhesion activity.	same
CLDN23	This gene encodes a member of the claudin family. Claudins are integral membrane proteins and components of tight junction strands. Tight junction strands serve as a physical barrier to prevent solutes and water from passing freely through the paracellular space between epithelial or endothelial cell sheets, and also play critical roles in maintaining cell polarity and signal transductions. This gene is expressed in germinal center B-cells, placenta and stomach as well as in colon tumor. This gene is down-regulated in intestinal type gastric cancer. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]	CLDN23 (Claudin 23) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Integrin Pathway and Cell junction organization. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and structural molecule activity.	Plays a major role in tight junction-specific obliteration of the intercellular space, through calcium-independent cell-adhesion activity.	same
CLDN19	The product of this gene belongs to the claudin family. It plays a major role in tight junction-specific obliteration of the intercellular space, through calcium-independent cell-adhesion activity. Defects in this gene are the cause of hypomagnesemia renal with ocular involvement (HOMGO). HOMGO is a progressive renal disease characterized by primary renal magnesium wasting with hypomagnesemia, hypercalciuria and nephrocalcinosis associated with severe ocular abnormalities such as bilateral chorioretinal scars, macular colobomata, significant myopia and nystagmus. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	CLDN19 (Claudin 19) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLDN19 include hypomagnesemia 5, renal, with ocular involvement and familial primary hypomagnesemia with hypercalciuria and nephrocalcinosis with severe ocular involvement. Among its related pathways are Integrin Pathway and Cell junction organization. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and structural molecule activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLDN9.	Plays a major role in tight junction-specific obliteration of the intercellular space, through calcium-independent cell-adhesion activity.	same
CLDN25	This gene encodes a member of the claudin family. Claudins are integral membrane proteins and components of tight junction strands. Tight junction strands serve as a physical barrier to prevent solutes and water from passing freely through the paracellular space between epithelial or endothelial cell sheets, and also play critical roles in maintaining cell polarity and signal transductions. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	CLDN25 (Claudin 25) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Leukocyte transendothelial migration and Hepatitis C. GO annotations related to this gene include structural molecule activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLDN15.	Plays a major role in tight junction-specific obliteration of the intercellular space, through calcium-independent cell-adhesion activity.	same
CLDN20	This gene encodes a member of the claudin family. Claudins are integral membrane proteins and components of tight junction strands. Tight junction strands serve as a physical barrier to prevent solutes and water from passing freely through the paracellular space between epithelial or endothelial cell sheets, and also play critical roles in maintaining cell polarity and signal transductions. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	CLDN20 (Claudin 20) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Integrin Pathway and Cell junction organization. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and structural molecule activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLDN9.	Plays a major role in tight junction-specific obliteration of the intercellular space, through calcium-independent cell-adhesion activity.	same
CLDN16	Tight junctions represent one mode of cell-to-cell adhesion in epithelial or endothelial cell sheets, forming continuous seals around cells and serving as a physical barrier to prevent solutes and water from passing freely through the paracellular space. These junctions are comprised of sets of continuous networking strands in the outwardly facing cytoplasmic leaflet, with complementary grooves in the inwardly facing extracytoplasmic leaflet. The protein encoded by this gene, a member of the claudin family, is an integral membrane protein and a component of tight junction strands. It is found primarily in the kidneys, specifically in the thick ascending limb of Henle, where it acts as either an intercellular pore or ion concentration sensor to regulate the paracellular resorption of magnesium ions. Defects in this gene are a cause of primary hypomagnesemia, which is characterized by massive renal magnesium wasting with hypomagnesemia and hypercalciuria, resulting in nephrocalcinosis and renal failure. This gene and the CLDN1 gene are clustered on chromosome 3q28. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	CLDN16 (Claudin 16) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLDN16 include hypomagnesemia 3, renal and hypomagnesemia primary. Among its related pathways are Integrin Pathway and Cell junction organization. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and magnesium ion transmembrane transporter activity.	Plays a major role in tight junction-specific obliteration of the intercellular space, through calcium-independent cell-adhesion activity. Involved in paracellular magnesium reabsorption. Required for a selective paracellular conductance. May form, alone or in partnership with other constituents, an intercellular pore permitting paracellular passage of magnesium and calcium ions down their electrochemical gradients. Alternatively, it could be a sensor of magnesium concentration that could alter paracellular permeability mediated by other factors	same
CLDN12	This gene encodes a member of the claudin family. Claudins are integral membrane proteins and components of tight junction strands. Tight junction strands serve as a physical barrier to prevent solutes and water from passing freely through the paracellular space between epithelial or endothelial cell sheets, and also play critical roles in maintaining cell polarity and signal transductions. This gene is expressed in the inner ear and bladder epithelium, and it is over-expressed in colorectal carcinomas. This protein and claudin 2 are critical for vitamin D-dependent Ca2+ absorption between enterocytes. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]	CLDN12 (Claudin 12) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Integrin Pathway and Cell junction organization. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and structural molecule activity.	Plays a major role in tight junction-specific obliteration of the intercellular space, through calcium-independent cell-adhesion activity.	same
CLDN3	Tight junctions represent one mode of cell-to-cell adhesion in epithelial or endothelial cell sheets, forming continuous seals around cells and serving as a physical barrier to prevent solutes and water from passing freely through the paracellular space. These junctions are comprised of sets of continuous networking strands in the outwardly facing cytoplasmic leaflet, with complementary grooves in the inwardly facing extracytoplasmic leaflet. The protein encoded by this intronless gene, a member of the claudin family, is an integral membrane protein and a component of tight junction strands. It is also a low-affinity receptor for Clostridium perfringens enterotoxin, and shares aa sequence similarity with a putative apoptosis-related protein found in rat. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CLDN3 (Claudin 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLDN3 include pancreatoblastoma and mucoepidermoid carcinoma. Among its related pathways are Integrin Pathway and Cell junction organization. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and transmembrane signaling receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLDN9.	Plays a major role in tight junction-specific obliteration of the intercellular space, through calcium-independent cell-adhesion activity.	same
CLDN6	Tight junctions represent one mode of cell-to-cell adhesion in epithelial or endothelial cell sheets, forming continuous seals around cells and serving as a physical barrier to prevent solutes and water from passing freely through the paracellular space. These junctions are comprised of sets of continuous networking strands in the outwardly facing cytoplasmic leaflet, with complementary grooves in the inwardly facing extracytoplasmic leaflet. This gene encodes a component of tight junction strands, which is a member of the claudin family. The protein is an integral membrane protein and is one of the entry cofactors for hepatitis C virus. The gene methylation may be involved in esophageal tumorigenesis. This gene is adjacent to another family member CLDN9 on chromosome 16.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]	CLDN6 (Claudin 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLDN6 include monosomy 22 and atypical teratoid rhabdoid tumor. Among its related pathways are Integrin Pathway and Cell junction organization. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and structural molecule activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLDN9.	Plays a major role in tight junction-specific obliteration of the intercellular space (By similarity). May act as a coreceptor for HCV entry into hepatic cells.	same
CLDN1	Tight junctions represent one mode of cell-to-cell adhesion in epithelial or endothelial cell sheets, forming continuous seals around cells and serving as a physical barrier to prevent solutes and water from passing freely through the paracellular space. These junctions are comprised of sets of continuous networking strands in the outwardly facing cytoplasmic leaflet, with complementary grooves in the inwardly facing extracytoplasmic leaflet. The protein encoded by this gene, a member of the claudin family, is an integral membrane protein and a component of tight junction strands. Loss of function mutations result in neonatal ichthyosis-sclerosing cholangitis syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CLDN1 (Claudin 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLDN1 include ichthyosis, leukocyte vacuoles, alopecia, and sclerosing cholangitis and sclerosing cholangitis. Among its related pathways are Integrin Pathway and Adhesion. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and structural molecule activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLDN9.	Claudins function as major constituents of the tight junction complexes that regulate the permeability of epithelia. While some claudin family members play essential roles in the formation of impermeable barriers, others mediate the permeability to ions and small molecules. Often, several claudin family members are coexpressed and interact with each other, and this determines the overall permeability. CLDN1 is required to prevent the paracellular diffusion of small molecules through tight junctions in the epidermis and is required for the normal barrier function of the skin. Required for normal water homeostasis and to prevent excessive water loss through the skin, probably via an indirect effect on the expression levels of other proteins, since CLDN1 itself seems to be dispensable for water barrier formation in keratinocyte tight junctions (PubMed:23407391). CLDN1 acts as a coreceptor for HCV entry into hepatic cells.	same
CLDN5	This gene encodes a member of the claudin family. Claudins are integral membrane proteins and components of tight junction strands. Tight junction strands serve as a physical barrier to prevent solutes and water from passing freely through the paracellular space between epithelial or endothelial cell sheets. Mutations in this gene have been found in patients with velocardiofacial syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]	CLDN5 (Claudin 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLDN5 include pancreatoblastoma and glioblastoma multiforme. Among its related pathways are Integrin Pathway and Cell junction organization. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and structural molecule activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLDN9.	Plays a major role in tight junction-specific obliteration of the intercellular space.	same
CLDN8	This gene encodes a member of the claudin family. Claudins are integral membrane proteins and components of tight junction strands. Tight junction strands serve as a physical barrier to prevent solutes and water from passing freely through the paracellular space between epithelial or endothelial cell sheets, and also play critical roles in maintaining cell polarity and signal transductions. This protein plays important roles in the paracellular cation barrier of the distal renal tubule, and in the paracellular barrier to prevent sodium back-leakage in distal colon. Differential expression of this gene has been observed in colorectal carcinoma and renal cell tumors, and along with claudin-7, is an immunohistochemical marker for the differential diagnosis of chromophobe renal cell carcinoma and renal oncocytoma.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	CLDN8 (Claudin 8) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLDN8 include oxyphilic adenoma and chromophobe renal cell carcinoma. Among its related pathways are Integrin Pathway and Cell junction organization. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and structural molecule activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLDN9.	Plays a major role in tight junction-specific obliteration of the intercellular space.	same
CLDN2	This gene product belongs to the claudin protein family whose members have been identified as major integral membrane proteins localized exclusively at tight junctions. Claudins are expressed in an organ-specific manner and regulate tissue-specific physiologic properties of tight junctions. This protein is expressed in the intestine. Alternatively spliced transcript variants with different 5' untranslated region have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]	CLDN2 (Claudin 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Integrin Pathway and Cell junction organization. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and structural molecule activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLDN9.	Plays a major role in tight junction-specific obliteration of the intercellular space, through calcium-independent cell-adhesion activity.	same
CLDN9	This gene encodes a member of the claudin family. Claudins are integral membrane proteins and components of tight junction strands. Tight junction strands serve as a physical barrier to prevent solutes and water from passing freely through the paracellular space between epithelial or endothelial cell sheets, and also play critical roles in maintaining cell polarity and signal transductions. This protein is one of the entry cofactors for hepatitis C virus. Mouse studies revealed that this gene is required for the preservation of sensory cells in the hearing organ and the gene deficiency is associated with deafness. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	CLDN9 (Claudin 9) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLDN9 include endolymphatic hydrops and gastric adenocarcinoma. Among its related pathways are Integrin Pathway and Cell junction organization. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and structural molecule activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLDN4.	Plays a major role in tight junction-specific obliteration of the intercellular space, through calcium-independent cell-adhesion activity (By similarity). May act as a coreceptor for HCV entry into hepatic cells.	same
CLEC12B	empty	CLEC12B (C-Type Lectin Domain Family 12, Member B) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLEC7A.	Cell surface receptor that protects target cells against natural killer cell-mediated lysis. Modulates signaling cascades and mediates tyrosine phosphorylation of target MAP kinases.	same
CLEC11A	This gene encodes a member of the C-type lectin superfamily. The encoded protein is a secreted sulfated glycoprotein and functions as a growth factor for primitive hematopoietic progenitor cells. An alternative splice variant has been described but its biological nature has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CLEC11A (C-Type Lectin Domain Family 11, Member A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLEC11A include chronic granulomatous disease and piebaldism. Among its related pathways are NF-KappaB Family Pathway and NF-KappaB Family Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include growth factor activity and carbohydrate binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLEC3A.	Stimulates the proliferation and differentiation of hematopoietic precursor cells from various lineages, including erythrocytes, lymphocytes, granulocytes and macrophages. Acts synergistically with other cytokines, including IL-3, GCSF, GMCSF and FLT3 ligand. Suppresses SCF-stimulated erythrocyte proliferation.	same
CLEC17A	empty	CLEC17A (C-Type Lectin Domain Family 17, Member A) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include mannose binding and fucose binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLEC4D.	Cell surface receptor which may be involved in carbohydrate-mediated communication between cells in the germinal center. Binds glycans with terminal alpha-linked mannose or fucose residues.	same
CLEC16A	This gene encodes a member of the C-type lectin domain containing family. Single nucleotide polymorphisms in introns of this gene have been associated with diabetes mellitus, multiple sclerosis and rheumatoid arthritis. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	CLEC16A (C-Type Lectin Domain Family 16, Member A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLEC16A include rheumatoid arthritis.	Regulator of mitophagy through the upstream regulation of the RNF41/NRDP1-PARK2 pathway. Mitophagy is a selective form of autophagy necessary for mitochondrial quality control. The RNF41/NRDP1-PARK2 pathway regulates autophagosome-lysosome fusion during late mitophagy. May protect RNF41/NRDP1 from proteosomal degradation, RNF41/NRDP1 which regulates proteosomal degradation of PARK2. Plays a key role in beta cells functions by regulating mitophagy/autophagy and mitochondrial health.	same
CLEC12A	This gene encodes a member of the C-type lectin/C-type lectin-like domain (CTL/CTLD) superfamily. Members of this family share a common protein fold and have diverse functions, such as cell adhesion, cell-cell signaling, glycoprotein turnover, and roles in inflammation and immune response. The protein encoded by this gene is a negative regulator of granulocyte and monocyte function. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been described, but the full-length nature of some of these variants has not been determined. This gene is closely linked to other CTL/CTLD superfamily members in the natural killer gene complex region on chromosome 12p13. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]	CLEC12A (C-Type Lectin Domain Family 12, Member A) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are NOD-like Receptor Signaling Pathways. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLEC7A.	Cell surface receptor that modulates signaling cascades and mediates tyrosine phosphorylation of target MAP kinases.	same
CLEC18B	empty	CLEC18B (C-Type Lectin Domain Family 18, Member B) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding. An important paralog of this gene is PI16.	empty	same
CLEC18C	empty	CLEC18C (C-Type Lectin Domain Family 18, Member C) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are RhoGDI Pathway and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLEC18B.	empty	same
CLDN4	The protein encoded by this intronless gene belongs to the claudin family. Claudins are integral membrane proteins that are components of the epithelial cell tight junctions, which regulate movement of solutes and ions through the paracellular space. This protein is a high-affinity receptor for Clostridium perfringens enterotoxin (CPE) and may play a role in internal organ development and function during pre- and postnatal life. This gene is deleted in Williams-Beuren syndrome, a neurodevelopmental disorder affecting multiple systems. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2013]	CLDN4 (Claudin 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLDN4 include ovarian cystadenoma and williams-beuren syndrome. Among its related pathways are Integrin Pathway and Cell junction organization. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and transmembrane signaling receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLDN9.	Plays a major role in tight junction-specific obliteration of the intercellular space.	same
CLEC2A	CLEC2A belongs to the CLEC2 family of activation-induced, natural killer gene complex-encoded C-type lectin-like receptors (Spreu et al., 2007 [PubMed 18046548]).[supplied by OMIM, May 2008]	CLEC2A (C-Type Lectin Domain Family 2, Member A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLEC2A include leiomyoma cutis and epidermal appendage tumor. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and carbohydrate binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLEC2L.	Plays a role in modulating the extent of T-cell expansion. Enhances the expansion of TCR-stimulated T-cells by increasing their survival through enhanced expression of anti-apoptotic proteins. May modulate the capacity of T-cells to home to lymph nodes through SELL. Facilitates dedicated immune recognition of keratinocytes via interaction with its receptor KLRF2 by stimulating natural killer cell mediated cytotoxicity.	same
CLEC1A	This gene encodes a member of the C-type lectin/C-type lectin-like domain (CTL/CTLD) superfamily. Members of this family share a common protein fold and have diverse functions, such as cell adhesion, cell-cell signaling, glycoprotein turnover, and roles in inflammation and immune response. The encoded protein may play a role in regulating dendritic cell function. This gene is closely linked to other CTL/CTLD superfamily members on chromosome 12p13 in the natural killer gene complex region. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]	CLEC1A (C-Type Lectin Domain Family 1, Member A) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding and transmembrane signaling receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLEC7A.	empty	same
CLDN7	This gene encodes a member of the claudin family. Claudins are integral membrane proteins and components of tight junction strands. Tight junction strands serve as a physical barrier to prevent solutes and water from passing freely through the paracellular space between epithelial or endothelial cell sheets, and also play critical roles in maintaining cell polarity and signal transductions. Differential expression of this gene has been observed in different types of malignancies, including breast cancer, ovarian cancer, hepatocellular carcinomas, urinary tumors, prostate cancer, lung cancer, head and neck cancers, thyroid carcinomas, etc.. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	CLDN7 (Claudin 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLDN7 include oxyphilic adenoma and pancreatoblastoma. Among its related pathways are Integrin Pathway and Cell junction organization. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and structural molecule activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLDN9.	Plays a major role in tight junction-specific obliteration of the intercellular space.	same
CLEC2L	empty	CLEC2L (C-Type Lectin Domain Family 2, Member L) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLEC2A.	empty	same
CLEC3A	empty	CLEC3A (C-Type Lectin Domain Family 3, Member A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLEC3A include methylmalonic acidemia. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLEC11A.	Promotes cell adhesion to laminin-332 and fibronectin	same
CLEC3B	empty	CLEC3B (C-Type Lectin Domain Family 3, Member B) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and heparin binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLEC3A.	Tetranectin binds to plasminogen and to isolated kringle 4. May be involved in the packaging of molecules destined for exocytosis	same
CLEC10A	This gene encodes a member of the C-type lectin/C-type lectin-like domain (CTL/CTLD) superfamily. Members of this family share a common protein fold and have diverse functions, such as cell adhesion, cell-cell signalling, glycoprotein turnover, and roles in inflammation and immune response. The encoded type 2 transmembrane protein may function as a cell surface antigen. Two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CLEC10A (C-Type Lectin Domain Family 10, Member A) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLEC4D.	Probable role in regulating adaptive and innate immune responses. Binds in a calcium-dependent manner to terminal galactose and N-acetylgalactosamine units, linked to serine or threonine. These sugar moieties are known as Tn-Ag and are expressed in a variety of carcinoma cells.	same
CLEC4A	This gene encodes a member of the C-type lectin/C-type lectin-like domain (CTL/CTLD) superfamily. Members of this family share a common protein fold and have diverse functions, such as cell adhesion, cell-cell signalling, glycoprotein turnover, and roles in inflammation and immune response. The encoded type 2 transmembrane protein may play a role in inflammatory and immune response. Multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. This gene is closely linked to other CTL/CTLD superfamily members on chromosome 12p13 in the natural killer gene complex region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CLEC4A (C-Type Lectin Domain Family 4, Member A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLEC4A include pneumonic plague. Among its related pathways are NOD-like Receptor Signaling Pathways. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding and transmembrane signaling receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLEC4D.	May be involved in regulating immune reactivity. May play a role in modulating dendritic cells (DC) differentiation and/or maturation. May be involved via its ITIM motif (immunoreceptor tyrosine-based inhibitory motifs) in the inhibition of B-cell-receptor-mediated calcium mobilization and protein tyrosine phosphorylation.	same
CLDND1	empty	CLDND1 (Claudin Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CLDND2	empty	CLDND2 (Claudin Domain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CLEC2D	This gene encodes a member of the natural killer cell receptor C-type lectin family. The encoded protein inhibits osteoclast formation and contains a transmembrane domain near the N-terminus as well as the C-type lectin-like extracellular domain. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]	CLEC2D (C-Type Lectin Domain Family 2, Member D) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding and transmembrane signaling receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLEC2A.	Receptor for KLRB1 that protects target cells against natural killer cell-mediated lysis. Inhibits osteoclast formation. Inhibits bone resorption. Modulates the release of interferon-gamma. Binds high molecular weight sulfated glycosaminoglycans.	same
CLEC4D	This gene encodes a member of the C-type lectin/C-type lectin-like domain (CTL/CTLD) superfamily. Members of this family share a common protein fold and have diverse functions, such as cell adhesion, cell-cell signalling, glycoprotein turnover, and roles in inflammation and immune response. This gene is closely linked to other CTL/CTLD superfamily members on chromosome 12p13 in the natural killer gene complex region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CLEC4D (C-Type Lectin Domain Family 4, Member D) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLEC6A.	Functions as an endocytic receptor. May be involved in antigen uptake at the site of infection, either for clearance of the antigen, or for processing and further presentation to T cells.	same
CLEC4E	This gene encodes a member of the C-type lectin/C-type lectin-like domain (CTL/CTLD) superfamily. Members of this family share a common protein fold and have diverse functions, such as cell adhesion, cell-cell signalling, glycoprotein turnover, and roles in inflammation and immune response. The encoded type II transmembrane protein is a downstream target of CCAAT/enhancer binding protein (C/EBP), beta (CEBPB) and may play a role in inflammation. Alternative splice variants have been described but their full-length sequence has not been determined. This gene is closely linked to other CTL/CTLD superfamily members on chromosome 12p13 in the natural killer gene complex region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CLEC4E (C-Type Lectin Domain Family 4, Member E) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLEC4E include chromoblastomycosis. Among its related pathways are NOD-like Receptor Signaling Pathways and Tuberculosis. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor activity and carbohydrate binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLEC4D.	C-type lectin that functions as cell-surface receptor for a wide variety of ligands such as damaged cells, fungi and mycobacteria. Plays a role in the recognition of pathogenic fungi, such as Candida albicans. The detection of mycobacteria is via trehalose 6,6-dimycolate (TDM), a cell wall glycolipid. Specifically recognizes alpha-mannose residues on pathogenic fungi of the genus Malassezia. Recognizes also SAP130, a nuclear protein, that is released by dead or dying cells. Transduces signals through an ITAM-containing adapter protein, Fc receptor gamma chain /FCER1G. Induces secretion of inflammatory cytokines through a pathway that depends on SYK, CARD9 and NF-kappa-B.	same
CLEC4F	empty	CLEC4F (C-Type Lectin Domain Family 4, Member F) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLEC4D.	Receptor with an affinity for galactose and fucose. Could be involved in endocytosis (By similarity).	same
CLEC18A	This is one of three closely related paralogous genes on chromosome 16 encoding secreted proteins containing C-type lectin domains. These domains bind to carbohydrates in the presence of calcium, and may be involved in cell adhesion, immune response and apoptosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2012]	CLEC18A (C-Type Lectin Domain Family 18, Member A) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLEC18B.	empty	same
CLEC2B	This gene encodes a member of the C-type lectin/C-type lectin-like domain (CTL/CTLD) superfamily. Members of this family share a common protein fold and have diverse functions, such as cell adhesion, cell-cell signalling, glycoprotein turnover, and roles in inflammation and immune response. The encoded type 2 transmembrane protein may function as a cell activation antigen. An alternative splice variant has been described but its full-length sequence has not been determined. This gene is closely linked to other CTL/CTLD superfamily members on chromosome 12p13 in the natural killer gene complex region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CLEC2B (C-Type Lectin Domain Family 2, Member B) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLEC2A.	empty	same
CLEC4GP1	empty	CLEC4GP1 (C-Type Lectin Domain Family 4, Member G Pseudogene 1) is a Pseudogene.	empty	same
CLEC1B	Natural killer (NK) cells express multiple calcium-dependent (C-type) lectin-like receptors, such as CD94 (KLRD1; MIM 602894) and NKG2D (KLRC4; MIM 602893), that interact with major histocompatibility complex class I molecules and either inhibit or activate cytotoxicity and cytokine secretion. CLEC2 is a C-type lectin-like receptor expressed in myeloid cells and NK cells (Colonna et al., 2000 [PubMed 10671229]).[supplied by OMIM, Jan 2011]	CLEC1B (C-Type Lectin Domain Family 1, Member B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLEC1B include thrombocytopenia due to platelet alloimmunization. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding and transmembrane signaling receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLEC7A.	empty	same
CLEC14A	This gene encodes a member of the C-type lectin/C-type lectin-like domain (CTL/CTLD) superfamily. Members of this family share a common protein fold and have diverse functions, such as cell adhesion, cell-cell signalling, glycoprotein turnover, and roles in inflammation and immune response. This family member plays a role in cell-cell adhesion and angiogenesis. It functions in filopodia formation, cell migration and tube formation. Due to its presence at higher levels in tumor endothelium than in normal tissue endothelium, it is considered to be a candidate for tumor vascular targeting. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]	CLEC14A (C-Type Lectin Domain Family 14, Member A) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and GPCR Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding. An important paralog of this gene is CD93.	empty	same
CLEC4M	This gene encodes a transmembrane receptor and is often referred to as L-SIGN because of its expression in the endothelial cells of the lymph nodes and liver. The encoded protein is involved in the innate immune system and recognizes numerous evolutionarily divergent pathogens ranging from parasites to viruses, with a large impact on public health. The protein is organized into three distinct domains: an N-terminal transmembrane domain, a tandem-repeat neck domain and C-type lectin carbohydrate recognition domain. The extracellular region consisting of the C-type lectin and neck domains has a dual function as a pathogen recognition receptor and a cell adhesion receptor by binding carbohydrate ligands on the surface of microbes and endogenous cells. The neck region is important for homo-oligomerization which allows the receptor to bind multivalent ligands with high avidity. Variations in the number of 23 amino acid repeats in the neck domain of this protein are common and have a significant impact on ligand binding ability. This gene is closely related in terms of both sequence and function to a neighboring gene (GeneID 30835; often referred to as DC-SIGN or CD209). DC-SIGN and L-SIGN differ in their ligand-binding properties and distribution. Alternative splicing results in multiple variants.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]	CLEC4M (C-Type Lectin Domain Family 4, Member M) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLEC4M include severe acute respiratory syndrome and intrauterine infections. Among its related pathways are Tuberculosis and Influenza A. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor activity and peptide antigen binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLEC4D.	Probable pathogen-recognition receptor involved in peripheral immune surveillance in liver. May mediate the endocytosis of pathogens which are subsequently degraded in lysosomal compartments. Probably recognizes in a calcium-dependent manner high mannose N-linked oligosaccharides in a variety of pathogen antigens, including HIV-1 gp120, HIV-2 gp120, SIV gp120, ebolavirus glycoproteins, HCV E2, and human SARS coronavirus protein S. Is a receptor for ICAM3, probably by binding to mannose-like carbohydrates. Is presumably a coreceptor for the SARS coronavirus.	same
CLEC5A	This gene encodes a member of the C-type lectin/C-type lectin-like domain (CTL/CTLD) superfamily. Members of this family share a common protein fold and have diverse functions, such as cell adhesion, cell-cell signalling, glycoprotein turnover, and roles in inflammation and immune response. The encoded type II transmembrane protein interacts with dnax-activation protein 12 and may play a role in cell activation. Alternative splice variants have been described but their full-length sequence has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CLEC5A (C-Type Lectin Domain Family 5, Member A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLEC5A include dengue disease. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding and virus receptor activity.	Functions as a positive regulator of osteoclastogenesis. Cell surface receptor that signals via TYROBP. Regulates inflammatory responses. Acts as a key regulator of synovial injury and bone erosion during autoimmune joint inflammation (By similarity). Critical macrophage receptor for dengue virus serotypes 1-4. The binding of dengue virus to CLEC5A triggers signaling through the phosphylation of TYROBP, this interaction does not result in viral entry, but stimulates proinflammatory cytokine release.	same
CLEC6A	Like dectin-1 (CLEC7A; MIM 606264), CLEC6A, or dectin-2, is a type II membrane receptor with an extracellular C-type lectin-like domain fold. However, unlike dectin-1, dectin-2 lacks an immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM) in its cytoplasmic domain (Kanazawa et al., 2004 [PubMed 15175046]).[supplied by OMIM, Nov 2010]	CLEC6A (C-Type Lectin Domain Family 6, Member A) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are NOD-like Receptor Signaling Pathways. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLEC4D.	Binds high-mannose carbohydrates in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner. Functional receptor for alpha-mannans on C.albicans hypheas. Plays an important role in the host defense against C.albicans infection by inducing TH17 cell differentiation. Recognizes also, in a mannose-dependent manner, allergens from house dust mite and fungi, by promoting cysteinyl leukotriene production. Recognizes soluble elements from the eggs of Shistosoma mansoni altering adaptive immune responses. Transduces signals through an Fc receptor gamma chain /FCER1G and Syk-CARD9-NF-kappa-B-dependent pathway (By similarity).	same
CLEC4G	This gene encodes a glycan-binding receptor and member of the C-type lectin family which plays a role in the T-cell immune response. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]	CLEC4G (C-Type Lectin Domain Family 4, Member G) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLEC4G include lassa fever. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLEC4D.	empty	same
CLEC4C	This gene encodes a member of the C-type lectin/C-type lectin-like domain (CTL/CTLD) superfamily. Members of this family share a common protein fold and have diverse functions, such as cell adhesion, cell-cell signalling, glycoprotein turnover, and roles in inflammation and immune response. The encoded type 2 transmembrane protein may play a role in dendritic cell function. Two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CLEC4C (C-Type Lectin Domain Family 4, Member C) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are NOD-like Receptor Signaling Pathways. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLEC4D.	Involved in antigen-capturing. Target ligand into antigen processing and peptide-loading compartments for presentation to T-cells. May mediate potent inhibition of induction of IFN-alpha/beta expression in plasmacytoid dendritic cells. May act as a signaling receptor that activates protein-tyrosine kinases and mobilizes intracellular calcium. Does not seem to bind mannose.	same
CLGN	Calmegin is a testis-specific endoplasmic reticulum chaperone protein. CLGN may play a role in spermatogeneisis and infertility. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CLGN (Calmegin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLGN include infertility. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and unfolded protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is CALR.	Functions during spermatogenesis as a chaperone for a range of client proteins that are important for sperm adhesion onto the egg zona pellucida and for subsequent penetration of the zona pellucida. Required for normal sperm migration from the uterus into the oviduct. Required for normal male fertility. Binds calcium ions (By similarity).	same
CLECL1	This gene encodes a type II transmembrane, C-type lectin-like protein that is highly expressed on dendritic and B cells. This protein may act as a T-cell costimulatory molecule that enhances interleukin-4 production, and maybe involved in the regulation of the immune response. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	CLECL1 (C-Type Lectin-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is KLRF2.	May function in mediating immune cell-cell interactions. May act as a T-cell costimulatory molecule, enhancing anti-CD3-induced proliferation. May play a role in the interaction of dendritic cells with T-cells and the cells of the adaptive immune response.	same
CLIC2	This gene encodes a chloride intracellular channel protein. Chloride channels are a diverse group of proteins that regulate fundamental cellular processes including stabilization of cell membrane potential, transepithelial transport, maintenance of intracellular pH, and regulation of cell volume. This protein may play a role in inhibiting the function of ryanodine receptor 2. A mutation in this gene is the cause of X-linked mental retardation-32. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2013]	CLIC2 (Chloride Intracellular Channel 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLIC2 include mental retardation, x-linked, syndromic 32 and x-linked intellectual disability - cardiomegaly - congestive heart failure. Among its related pathways are Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include chloride channel activity and glutathione peroxidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLIC1.	Can insert into membranes and form chloride ion channels. Channel activity depends on the pH. Membrane insertion seems to be redox-regulated and may occur only under oxydizing conditions. Modulates the activity of RYR2 and inhibits calcium influx.	same
CLIC1	Chloride channels are a diverse group of proteins that regulate fundamental cellular processes including stabilization of cell membrane potential, transepithelial transport, maintenance of intracellular pH, and regulation of cell volume. Chloride intracellular channel 1 is a member of the p64 family; the protein localizes principally to the cell nucleus and exhibits both nuclear and plasma membrane chloride ion channel activity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CLIC1 (Chloride Intracellular Channel 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include chloride channel activity and voltage-gated chloride channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLIC4.	Can insert into membranes and form chloride ion channels. Channel activity depends on the pH. Membrane insertion seems to be redox-regulated and may occur only under oxydizing conditions. Involved in regulation of the cell cycle.	same
CLINT1	This gene encodes a protein with similarity to the epsin family of endocytic adapter proteins. The encoded protein interacts with clathrin, the adapter protein AP-1 and phosphoinositides. This protein may be involved in the formation of clathrin coated vesicles and trafficking between the trans-Golgi network and endosomes. Mutations in this gene are associated with a susceptibility to schizophrenia and psychotic disorders. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]	CLINT1 (Clathrin Interactor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLINT1 include schizophrenia. Among its related pathways are Clathrin derived vesicle budding and Clathrin derived vesicle budding. GO annotations related to this gene include lipid binding and clathrin binding. An important paralog of this gene is EPN3.	Binds to membranes enriched in phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PtdIns(4,5)P2). May have a role in transport via clathrin-coated vesicles from the trans-Golgi network to endosomes. Stimulates clathrin assembly.	same
CLIC6	This gene encodes a member of the chloride intracellular channel family of proteins. The gene is part of a large triplicated region found on chromosomes 1, 6, and 21. An alternatively spliced transcript variant has been described, but its biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CLIC6 (Chloride Intracellular Channel 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and voltage-gated chloride channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLIC1.	May insert into membranes and form chloride ion channels. May play a critical role in water-secreting cells, possibly through the regulation of chloride ion transport (By similarity).	same
CLIC4	Chloride channels are a diverse group of proteins that regulate fundamental cellular processes including stabilization of cell membrane potential, transepithelial transport, maintenance of intracellular pH, and regulation of cell volume. Chloride intracellular channel 4 (CLIC4) protein, encoded by the CLIC4 gene, is a member of the p64 family; the gene is expressed in many tissues and exhibits a intracellular vesicular pattern in Panc-1 cells (pancreatic cancer cells). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CLIC4 (Chloride Intracellular Channel 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLIC4 include pancreatic cancer. Among its related pathways are Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include chloride channel activity and voltage-gated chloride channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLIC1.	Can insert into membranes and form poorly selective ion channels that may also transport chloride ions. Channel activity depends on the pH. Membrane insertion seems to be redox-regulated and may occur only under oxydizing conditions. Promotes cell-surface expression of HRH3. Has alternate cellular functions like a potential role in angiogenesis or in maintaining apical-basolateral membrane polarity during mitosis and cytokinesis. Could also promote endothelial cell proliferation and regulate endothelial morphogenesis (tubulogenesis).	same
CLIP2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of cytoplasmic linker proteins, which have been proposed to mediate the interaction between specific membranous organelles and microtubules. This protein was found to associate with both microtubules and an organelle called the dendritic lamellar body. This gene is hemizygously deleted in Williams syndrome, a multisystem developmental disorder caused by the deletion of contiguous genes at 7q11.23. Alternative splicing of this gene generates 2 transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CLIP2 (CAP-GLY Domain Containing Linker Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLIP2 include williams-beuren syndrome. An important paralog of this gene is CLIP4.	Seems to link microtubules to dendritic lamellar body (DLB), a membranous organelle predominantly present in bulbous dendritic appendages of neurons linked by dendrodendritic gap junctions. May operate in the control of brain-specific organelle translocations (By similarity).	same
CLIP4	empty	CLIP4 (CAP-GLY Domain Containing Linker Protein Family, Member 4) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CEP350.	empty	same
CLIP1	The protein encoded by this gene links endocytic vesicles to microtubules. This gene is highly expressed in Reed-Sternberg cells of Hodgkin disease. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]	CLIP1 (CAP-GLY Domain Containing Linker Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLIP1 include extratemporal epilepsy and autosomal recessive non-syndromic intellectual disability. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and PAK Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and microtubule binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLIP4.	Binds to the plus end of microtubules and regulates the dynamics of the microtubule cytoskeleton. Promotes microtubule growth and microtubule bundling. Links cytoplasmic vesicles to microtubules and thereby plays an important role in intracellular vesicle trafficking. Plays a role macropinocytosis and endosome trafficking.	same
CLK1	This gene encodes a member of the CDC2-like (or LAMMER) family of dual specificity protein kinases. In the nucleus, the encoded protein phosphorylates serine/arginine-rich proteins involved in pre-mRNA processing, releasing them into the nucleoplasm. The choice of splice sites during pre-mRNA processing may be regulated by the concentration of transacting factors, including serine/arginine rich proteins. Therefore, the encoded protein may play an indirect role in governing splice site selection. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]	CLK1 (CDC-Like Kinase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLK1 include 3mc syndrome 2. Among its related pathways are Legionellosis and mRNA Splicing - Major Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and protein serine/threonine/tyrosine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLK4.	Dual specificity kinase acting on both serine/threonine and tyrosine-containing substrates. Phosphorylates serine- and arginine-rich (SR) proteins of the spliceosomal complex and may be a constituent of a network of regulatory mechanisms that enable SR proteins to control RNA splicing. Phosphorylates: SRSF1, SRSF3 and PTPN1. Regulates the alternative splicing of tissue factor (F3) pre-mRNA in endothelial cells and adenovirus E1A pre-mRNA.	same
CLK2P	empty	CLK2P1 (CDC-Like Kinase 2, Pseudogene 1) is a Pseudogene.	empty	diff
CLK4	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the CDC2-like protein kinase (CLK) family. This protein kinase can interact with and phosphorylate the serine- and arginine-rich (SR) proteins, which are known to play an important role in the formation of spliceosomes, and thus may be involved in the regulation of alternative splicing. Studies in the Israeli sand rat Psammomys obesus suggested that the ubiquitin-like 5 (UBL5/BEACON), a highly conserved ubiquitin-like protein, may interact with and regulate the activity of this kinase. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed, but the full-length natures of which have not yet been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CLK4 (CDC-Like Kinase 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are mRNA Splicing - Major Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and protein serine/threonine/tyrosine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is PRPF4B.	Dual specificity kinase acting on both serine/threonine and tyrosine-containing substrates. Phosphorylates serine- and arginine-rich (SR) proteins of the spliceosomal complex and may be a constituent of a network of regulatory mechanisms that enable SR proteins to control RNA splicing. Phosphorylates SRSF1 and SRSF3. Required for the regulation of alternative splicing of MAPT/TAU. Regulates the alternative splicing of tissue factor (F3) pre-mRNA in endothelial cells.	same
CLLU1OS	empty	CLLU1OS (Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia Up-Regulated 1 Opposite Strand) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLLU1OS include chronic lymphocytic leukemia.	empty	same
CLEC9A	CLEC9A is a group V C-type lectin-like receptor (CTLR) that functions as an activation receptor and is expressed on myeloid lineage cells (Huysamen et al., 2008 [PubMed 18408006]).[supplied by OMIM, Aug 2008]	CLEC9A (C-Type Lectin Domain Family 9, Member A) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLEC7A.	Functions as an endocytic receptor on a small subset of myeloid cells specialized for the uptake and processing of material from dead cells. Recognizes filamentous form of actin in association with particular actin-binding domains of cytoskeletal proteins, including spectrin, exposed when cell membranes are damaged, and mediate the cross-presentation of dead-cell associated antigens in a Syk-dependent manner.	same
CLLU1	empty	CLLU1 (Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia Up-Regulated 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLLU1 include mature b-cell neoplasm and chronic lymphocytic leukemia.	empty	same
CLMN	empty	CLMN (Calmin (Calponin-Like, Transmembrane)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding. An important paralog of this gene is ACTN2.	empty	same
CLN3	This gene encodes a protein that is involved in lysosomal function. Mutations in this, as well as other neuronal ceroid-lipofuscinosis (CLN) genes, cause neurodegenerative diseases commonly known as Batten disease or collectively known as neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCLs). Many alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CLN3 (Ceroid-Lipofuscinosis, Neuronal 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLN3 include ceroid lipofuscinosis, neuronal, 3 and neuronal ceroid-lipofuscinoses. Among its related pathways are Lysosome. GO annotations related to this gene include unfolded protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000261832.	Involved in microtubule-dependent, anterograde transport of late endosomes and lysosomes.	same
CLIC3	Chloride channels are a diverse group of proteins that regulate fundamental cellular processes including stabilization of cell membrane potential, transepithelial transport, maintenance of intracellular pH, and regulation of cell volume. Chloride intracellular channel 3 is a member of the p64 family and is predominantly localized in the nucleus and stimulates chloride ion channel activity. In addition, this protein may participate in cellular growth control, based on its association with ERK7, a member of the MAP kinase family. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CLIC3 (Chloride Intracellular Channel 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include chloride channel activity and voltage-gated chloride channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLIC1.	Can insert into membranes and form chloride ion channels. May participate in cellular growth control.	same
CLK2	This gene encodes a dual specificity protein kinase that phosphorylates serine/threonine and tyrosine-containing substrates. Activity of this protein regulates serine- and arginine-rich (SR) proteins of the spliceosomal complex, thereby influencing alternative transcript splicing. Chromosomal translocations have been characterized between this locus and the PAFAH1B3 (platelet-activating factor acetylhydrolase 1b, catalytic subunit 3 (29kDa)) gene on chromosome 19, resulting in the production of a fusion protein. Note that this gene is distinct from the TELO2 gene (GeneID:9894), which shares the CLK2 alias, but encodes a protein that is involved in telomere length regulation. There is a pseudogene for this gene on chromosome 7. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2014]	CLK2 (CDC-Like Kinase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are mRNA Splicing - Major Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and protein serine/threonine/tyrosine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLK4.	Dual specificity kinase acting on both serine/threonine and tyrosine-containing substrates. Phosphorylates serine- and arginine-rich (SR) proteins of the spliceosomal complex. May be a constituent of a network of regulatory mechanisms that enable SR proteins to control RNA splicing and can cause redistribution of SR proteins from speckles to a diffuse nucleoplasmic distribution. Acts as a suppressor of hepatic gluconeogenesis and glucose output by repressing PPARGC1A transcriptional activity on gluconeogenic genes via its phosphorylation. Phosphorylates PPP2R5B thereby stimulating the assembly of PP2A phosphatase with the PPP2R5B-AKT1 complex leading to dephosphorylation of AKT1. Phosphorylates: PTPN1, SRSF1 and SRSF3. Regulates the alternative splicing of tissue factor (F3) pre-mRNA in endothelial cells.	same
CLK3	This gene encodes a protein belonging to the serine/threonine type protein kinase family. This protein is a nuclear dual-specificity kinase that regulates the intranuclear distribution of the serine/arginine-rich (SR) family of splicing factors. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. Related pseudogenes are located on chromosomes 1 and 9. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CLK3 (CDC-Like Kinase 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Translational Control and mRNA Splicing - Major Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and protein serine/threonine/tyrosine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLK4.	Dual specificity kinase acting on both serine/threonine and tyrosine-containing substrates. Phosphorylates serine- and arginine-rich (SR) proteins of the spliceosomal complex. May be a constituent of a network of regulatory mechanisms that enable SR proteins to control RNA splicing and can cause redistribution of SR proteins from speckles to a diffuse nucleoplasmic distribution. Phosphorylates SRSF1 and SRSF3. Regulates the alternative splicing of tissue factor (F3) pre-mRNA in endothelial cells.	same
CLN5	This gene is one of eight which have been associated with neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCL). Also referred to as Batten disease, NCL comprises a class of autosomal recessive, neurodegenerative disorders affecting children. The genes responsible likely encode proteins involved in the degradation of post-translationally modified proteins in lysosomes. The primary defect in NCL disorders is thought to be associated with lysosomal storage function.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]	CLN5 (Ceroid-Lipofuscinosis, Neuronal 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLN5 include ceroid lipofuscinosis, neuronal, 5 and ceroid lipofuscinosis, neuronal, 1. Among its related pathways are Lysosome and Translational Control. GO annotations related to this gene include mannose binding.	empty	same
CLEC7A	This gene encodes a member of the C-type lectin/C-type lectin-like domain (CTL/CTLD) superfamily. The encoded glycoprotein is a small type II membrane receptor with an extracellular C-type lectin-like domain fold and a cytoplasmic domain with an immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif. It functions as a pattern-recognition receptor that recognizes a variety of beta-1,3-linked and beta-1,6-linked glucans from fungi and plants, and in this way plays a role in innate immune response. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. This gene is closely linked to other CTL/CTLD superfamily members on chromosome 12p13 in the natural killer gene complex region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CLEC7A (C-Type Lectin Domain Family 7, Member A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLEC7A include aspergillosis and candidiasis, familial, 4, autosomal recessive. Among its related pathways are NOD-like Receptor Signaling Pathways and Tuberculosis. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding and MHC protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLEC12A.	Lectin that functions as pattern receptor specific for beta-1,3-linked and beta-1,6-linked glucans, such as cell wall constituents from pathogenic bacteria and fungi. Necessary for the TLR2-mediated inflammatory response and for TLR2-mediated activation of NF-kappa-B. Enhances cytokine production in macrophages and dendritic cells. Mediates production of reactive oxygen species in the cell. Mediates phagocytosis of C.albicans conidia. Binds T-cells in a way that does not involve their surface glycans and plays a role in T-cell activation. Stimulates T-cell proliferation (By similarity).	same
CLN6	This gene is one of eight which have been associated with neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCL). Also referred to as Batten disease, NCL comprises a class of autosomal recessive, neurodegenerative disorders affecting children. The genes responsible likely encode proteins involved in the degradation of post-translationally modified proteins in lysosomes. The primary defect in NCL disorders is thought to be associated with lysosomal storage function. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]	CLN6 (Ceroid-Lipofuscinosis, Neuronal 6, Late Infantile, Variant) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLN6 include ceroid lipofuscinosis, neuronal, 6 and ceroid lipofuscinosis, neuronal, kufs type, adult onset. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity.	empty	same
CLIP3	This gene encodes a member of the cytoplasmic linker protein 170 family. Members of this protein family contain a cytoskeleton-associated protein glycine-rich domain and mediate the interaction of microtubules with cellular organelles. The encoded protein plays a role in T cell apoptosis by facilitating the association of tubulin and the lipid raft ganglioside GD3. The encoded protein also functions as a scaffold protein mediating membrane localization of phosphorylated protein kinase B. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]	CLIP3 (CAP-GLY Domain Containing Linker Protein 3) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include microtubule binding and ganglioside binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLIP4.	Functions as a cytoplasmic linker protein. Involved in TGN-endosome dynamics. May modulate the cellular compartmentalization of AKT kinase family and promote its cell membrane localization, thereby playing a role in glucose transport in adipocytes.	same
CLN8	This gene encodes a transmembrane protein belonging to a family of proteins containing TLC domains, which are postulated to function in lipid synthesis, transport, or sensing. The protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), and may recycle between the ER and ER-Golgi intermediate compartment. Mutations in this gene are associated with progressive epilepsy with mental retardation (EMPR), which is a subtype of neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCL). Patients with mutations in this gene have altered levels of sphingolipid and phospholipids in the brain. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CLN8 (Ceroid-Lipofuscinosis, Neuronal 8 (Epilepsy, Progressive With Mental Retardation)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLN8 include ceroid lipofuscinosis, neuronal, 8 and ceroid lipofuscinosis, neuronal, 8, northern epilepsy variant. Among its related pathways are Synaptic vesicle cycle.	Could play a role in cell proliferation during neuronal differentiation and in protection against cell death.	same
CLNK	MIST is a member of the SLP76 family of adaptors (see LCP2, MIM 601603; BLNK, MIM 604515). MIST plays a role in the regulation of immunoreceptor signaling, including PLC-gamma (PLCG1; MIM 172420)-mediated B cell antigen receptor (BCR) signaling and FC-epsilon R1 (see FCER1A, MIM 147140)-mediated mast cell degranulation (Cao et al., 1999 [PubMed 10562326]; Goitsuka et al., 2000, 2001 [PubMed 10744659] [PubMed 11463797]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CLNK (Cytokine-Dependent Hematopoietic Cell Linker) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLNK include gingival recession and croup. GO annotations related to this gene include SH3/SH2 adaptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is LCP2.	Plays a role in the regulation of immunoreceptor signaling, including PLC-gamma-mediated B-cell antigen receptor (BCR) signaling and FC-epsilon R1-mediated mast cell degranulation. Involved in phosphorylation of LAT (By similarity).	same
CLNS1A	This gene encodes a protein that functions in multiple regulatory pathways. The encoded protein complexes with numerous cytosolic proteins and performs diverse functions including regulation of small nuclear ribonucleoprotein biosynthesis, platelet activation and cytoskeletal organization. The protein is also found associated with the plasma membrane where it functions as a chloride current regulator. Pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosomes 1, 4 and 6. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]	CLNS1A (Chloride Channel, Nucleotide-Sensitive, 1A) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA.	Chaperone that regulates the assembly of spliceosomal U1, U2, U4 and U5 small nuclear ribonucleoproteins (snRNPs), the building blocks of the spliceosome. Thereby, plays an important role in the splicing of cellular pre-mRNAs. Most spliceosomal snRNPs contain a common set of Sm proteins SNRPB, SNRPD1, SNRPD2, SNRPD3, SNRPE, SNRPF and SNRPG that assemble in a heptameric protein ring on the Sm site of the small nuclear RNA to form the core snRNP. In the cytosol, the Sm proteins SNRPD1, SNRPD2, SNRPE, SNRPF and SNRPG are trapped in an inactive 6S pICln-Sm complex by the chaperone CLNS1A that controls the assembly of the core snRNP. Dissociation by the SMN complex of CLNS1A from the trapped Sm proteins and their transfer to an SMN-Sm complex triggers the assembly of core snRNPs and their transport to the nucleus. May also indirectly participate in cellular volume control by activation of a swelling-induced chloride conductance pathway.	same
CLP1	This gene encodes a member of the Clp1 family. The encoded protein is a multifunctional kinase which is a component of the tRNA splicing endonuclease complex and a component of the pre-mRNA cleavage complex II. This protein is implicated in tRNA, mRNA, and siRNA maturation. Mutations in this gene are associated with pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 10 (PCH10). Alternatively splice transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	CLP1 (Cleavage And Polyadenylation Factor I Subunit 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLP1 include pontocerebellar hypoplasia, type 10. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and mRNA Splicing - Major Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include ATP-dependent polydeoxyribonucleotide 5-hydroxyl-kinase activity and ATP-dependent polyribonucleotide 5-hydroxyl-kinase activity.	Polynucleotide kinase that can phosphorylate the 5-hydroxyl groups of double-stranded RNA (dsRNA), single-stranded RNA (ssRNA), double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) and double-stranded DNA:RNA hybrids. dsRNA is phosphorylated more efficiently than dsDNA, and the RNA component of a DNA:RNA hybrid is phosphorylated more efficiently than the DNA component. Plays a key role in both tRNA splicing and mRNA 3-end formation. Component of the tRNA splicing endonuclease complex: phosphorylates the 5-terminus of the tRNA 3-exon during tRNA splicing; this phosphorylation event is a prerequisite for the subsequent ligation of the two exon halves and the production of a mature tRNA (PubMed:24766809, PubMed:24766810). Its role in tRNA splicing and maturation is required for cerebellar development (PubMed:24766809, PubMed:24766810). Component of the pre-mRNA cleavage complex II (CF-II), which seems to be required for mRNA 3-end formation. Also phosphorylates the 5-terminus of exogenously introduced short interfering RNAs (siRNAs), which is a necessary prerequisite for their incorporation into the RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC). However, endogenous siRNAs and microRNAs (miRNAs) that are produced by the cleavage of dsRNA precursors by DICER1 already contain a 5-phosphate group, so this protein may be dispensible for normal RNA-mediated gene silencing.	same
CLPB	empty	CLPB (ClpB Homolog, Mitochondrial AAA ATPase Chaperonin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLPB include tularemia. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleoside-triphosphatase activity.	May function as a regulatory ATPase and be related to secretion/protein trafficking process	same
CLOCK	The protein encoded by this gene plays a central role in the regulation of circadian rhythms. The protein encodes a transcription factor of the basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) family and contains DNA binding histone acetyltransferase activity. The encoded protein forms a heterodimer with ARNTL (BMAL1) that binds E-box enhancer elements upstream of Period (PER1, PER2, PER3) and Cryptochrome (CRY1, CRY2) genes and activates transcription of these genes. PER and CRY proteins heterodimerize and repress their own transcription by interacting in a feedback loop with CLOCK/ARNTL complexes. Polymorphisms in this gene may be associated with behavioral changes in certain populations and with obesity and metabolic syndrome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2014]	CLOCK (Clock Circadian Regulator) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLOCK include delayed sleep phase syndrome and narcolepsy. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and protein dimerization activity. An important paralog of this gene is AHRR.	Transcriptional activator which forms a core component of the circadian clock. The circadian clock, an internal time-keeping system, regulates various physiological processes through the generation of approximately 24 hour circadian rhythms in gene expression, which are translated into rhythms in metabolism and behavior. It is derived from the Latin roots circa (about) and diem (day) and acts as an important regulator of a wide array of physiological functions including metabolism, sleep, body temperature, blood pressure, endocrine, immune, cardiovascular, and renal function. Consists of two major components: the central clock, residing in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the brain, and the peripheral clocks that are present in nearly every tissue and organ system. Both the central and peripheral clocks can be reset by environmental cues, also known as Zeitgebers (German for timegivers). The predominant Zeitgeber for the central clock is light, which is sensed by retina and signals directly to the SCN. The central clock entrains the peripheral clocks through neuronal and hormonal signals, body temperature and feeding-related cues, aligning all clocks with the external light/dark cycle. Circadian rhythms allow an organism to achieve temporal homeostasis with its environment at the molecular level by regulating gene expression to create a peak of protein expression once every 24 hours to control when a particular physiological process is most active with respect to the solar day. Transcription and translation of core clock components (CLOCK, NPAS2, ARNTL/BMAL1, ARNTL2/BMAL2, PER1, PER2, PER3, CRY1 and CRY2) plays a critical role in rhythm generation, whereas delays imposed by post-translational modifications (PTMs) are important for determining the period (tau) of the rhythms (tau refers to the period of a rhythm and is the length, in time, of one complete cycle). A diurnal rhythm is synchronized with the day/night cycle, while the ultradian and infradian rhythms have a period shorter and longer than 24 hours, respectively. Disruptions in the circadian rhythms contribute to the pathology of cardiovascular diseases, cancer, metabolic syndromes and aging. A transcription/translation feedback loop (TTFL) forms the core of the molecular circadian clock mechanism. Transcription factors, CLOCK or NPAS2 and ARNTL/BMAL1 or ARNTL2/BMAL2, form the positive limb of the feedback loop, act in the form of a heterodimer and activate the transcription of core clock genes and clock-controlled genes (involved in key metabolic processes), harboring E-box elements (5-CACGTG-3) within their promoters. The core clock genes: PER1/2/3 and CRY1/2 which are transcriptional repressors form the negative limb of the feedback loop and interact with the CLOCK NPAS2-ARNTL/BMAL1 ARNTL2/BMAL2 heterodimer inhibiting its activity and thereby negatively regulating their own expression. This heterodimer also activates nuclear receptors NR1D1/2 and RORA/B/G, which form a second feedback loop and which activate and repress ARNTL/BMAL1 transcription, respectively. CLOCK has an intrinsic acetyltransferase activity, which enables circadian chromatin remodeling by acetylating histones and nonhistone proteins, including its own partner ARNTL/BMAL1. Regulates the circadian expression of ICAM1, VCAM1, CCL2, THPO and MPL and also acts as an enhancer of the transactivation potential of NF-kappaB. Plays an important role in the homeostatic regulation of sleep. The CLOCK-ARNTL/BMAL1 heterodimer regulates the circadian expression of SERPINE1/PAI1, VWF, B3, CCRN4L/NOC, NAMPT, DBP, MYOD1, PPARGC1A, PPARGC1B, SIRT1, GYS2, F7, NGFR, GNRHR, BHLHE40/DEC1, ATF4, MTA1, KLF10 and also genes implicated in glucose and lipid metabolism. Represses glucocorticoid receptor NR3C1/GR-induced transcriptional activity by reducing the association of NR3C1/GR to glucocorticoid response elements (GREs) via the acetylation of multiple lysine residues located in its hinge region. Promotes rhythmic chromatin opening, regulating the DNA accessibility of other transcription factors. The CLOCK-ARNTL2/BMAL2 heterodimer activates the transcription of SERPINE1/PAI1 and BHLHE40/DEC1.	same
CLPP	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the peptidase family S14 and hydrolyzes proteins into small peptides in the presence of ATP and magnesium. The protein is transported into mitochondrial matrix and is associated with the inner mitochondrial membrane. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CLPP (Caseinolytic Mitochondrial Matrix Peptidase Proteolytic Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLPP include perrault syndrome 3 and perrault syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include serine-type endopeptidase activity and peptidase activity.	Protease component of the Clp complex that cleaves peptides and various proteins in an ATP-dependent process. Has low peptidase activity in the absence of CLPX. The Clp complex can degrade CSN1S1, CSN2 and CSN3, as well as synthetic peptides (in vitro) and may be responsible for a fairly general and central housekeeping function rather than for the degradation of specific substrates.	same
CLPTM1L	empty	CLPTM1L (CLPTM1-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLPTM1L include cleft lip and lung cancer. An important paralog of this gene is CLPTM1.	Enhances cisplatin-mediated apoptosis, when overexpressed.	same
CLPX	empty	CLPX (Caseinolytic Mitochondrial Matrix Peptidase Chaperone Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include ATPase activity and peptidase activator activity.	ATP-dependent specificity component of the Clp protease complex. Hydrolyzes ATP. Targets specific substrates for degradation by the Clp complex. Can perform chaperone functions in the absence of CLPP. Enhances the DNA-binding activity of TFAM and is required for maintaining a normal mitochondrial nucleoid structure.	same
CLPTM1	empty	CLPTM1 (Cleft Lip And Palate Associated Transmembrane Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLPTM1 include cleft lip. An important paralog of this gene is CLPTM1L.	May play a role in T-cell development.	same
CLSPN	The product of this gene is an essential upstream regulator of checkpoint kinase 1 and triggers a checkpoint arrest of the cell cycle in response to replicative stress or DNA damage. The protein is also required for efficient DNA replication during a normal S phase. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	CLSPN (Claspin) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle / Checkpoint Control. GO annotations related to this gene include anaphase-promoting complex binding.	Required for checkpoint mediated cell cycle arrest in response to inhibition of DNA replication or to DNA damage induced by both ionizing and UV irradiation. Adapter protein which binds to BRCA1 and the checkpoint kinase CHEK1 and facilitates the ATR-dependent phosphorylation of both proteins. Can also bind specifically to branched DNA structures and may associate with S-phase chromatin following formation of the pre-replication complex (pre-RC). This may indicate a role for this protein as a sensor which monitors the integrity of DNA replication forks.	same
CLPS	The protein encoded by this gene is a cofactor needed by pancreatic lipase for efficient dietary lipid hydrolysis. It binds to the C-terminal, non-catalytic domain of lipase, thereby stabilizing an active conformation and considerably increasing the overall hydrophobic binding site. The gene product allows lipase to anchor noncovalently to the surface of lipid micelles, counteracting the destabilizing influence of intestinal bile salts. This cofactor is only expressed in pancreatic acinar cells, suggesting regulation of expression by tissue-specific elements. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]	CLPS (Colipase, Pancreatic) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLPS include obsessive-compulsive personality disorder and johanson-blizzard syndrome. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include enzyme activator activity.	Colipase is a cofactor of pancreatic lipase. It allows the lipase to anchor itself to the lipid-water interface. Without colipase the enzyme is washed off by bile salts, which have an inhibitory effect on the lipase	same
CLSTN2	empty	CLSTN2 (Calsyntenin 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLSTN3.	May modulate calcium-mediated postsynaptic signals.	same
CLSTN1	This gene is a member of the calsyntenin family, a subset of the cadherin superfamily. The encoded transmembrane protein, also known as alcadein-alpha, is thought to bind to kinesin-1 motors to mediate the axonal anterograde transport of certain types of vesicle. Amyloid precursor protein (APP) is trafficked via these vesicles and so this protein is being investigated to see how it might contribute to the mechanisms underlying Alzheimer's disease. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]	CLSTN1 (Calsyntenin 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and PI-3K cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLSTN3.	Induces KLC1 association with vesicles and functions as a cargo in axonal anterograde transport. Complex formation with APBA2 and APP, stabilizes APP metabolism and enhances APBA2-mediated suppression of beta-APP40 secretion, due to the retardation of intracellular APP maturation. In complex with APBA2 and C99, a C-terminal APP fragment, abolishes C99 interaction with PSEN1 and thus APP C99 cleavage by gamma-secretase, most probably through stabilization of the direct interaction between APBA2 and APP. The intracellular fragment AlcICD suppresses APBB1-dependent transactivation stimulated by APP C-terminal intracellular fragment (AICD), most probably by competing with AICD for APBB1-binding. May modulate calcium-mediated postsynaptic signals (By similarity).	same
CLTB	Clathrin is a large, soluble protein composed of heavy and light chains. It functions as the main structural component of the lattice-type cytoplasmic face of coated pits and vesicles which entrap specific macromolecules during receptor-mediated endocytosis. This gene encodes one of two clathrin light chain proteins which are believed to function as regulatory elements. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CLTB (Clathrin, Light Chain B) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Endocytosis. GO annotations related to this gene include structural molecule activity and peptide binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLTA.	Clathrin is the major protein of the polyhedral coat of coated pits and vesicles	same
CLTA	Clathrin is a large, soluble protein composed of heavy and light chains. It functions as the main structural component of the lattice-type cytoplasmic face of coated pits and vesicles which entrap specific macromolecules during receptor-mediated endocytosis. This gene encodes one of two clathrin light chain proteins which are believed to function as regulatory elements. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 8 and 12. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	CLTA (Clathrin, Light Chain A) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include structural molecule activity and peptide binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLTB.	Clathrin is the major protein of the polyhedral coat of coated pits and vesicles	same
CLTC	Clathrin is a major protein component of the cytoplasmic face of intracellular organelles, called coated vesicles and coated pits. These specialized organelles are involved in the intracellular trafficking of receptors and endocytosis of a variety of macromolecules. The basic subunit of the clathrin coat is composed of three heavy chains and three light chains. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CLTC (Clathrin, Heavy Chain (Hc)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLTC include inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor and translocation renal cell carcinoma. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. GO annotations related to this gene include structural molecule activity.	Clathrin is the major protein of the polyhedral coat of coated pits and vesicles. Two different adapter protein complexes link the clathrin lattice either to the plasma membrane or to the trans-Golgi network	same
CLUAP1	The protein encoded by this gene contains a single coiled-coil region. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants and protein isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]	CLUAP1 (Clusterin Associated Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	Required for cilia biogenesis. Appears to function within the multiple intraflagellar transport complex B (IFT-B). Key regulator of hedgehog signaling (By similarity).	same
CLSTN3	empty	CLSTN3 (Calsyntenin 3) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLSTN2.	May modulate calcium-mediated postsynaptic signals. Complex formation with APBA2 and APP, stabilizes APP metabolism and enhances APBA2-mediated suppression of beta-APP40 secretion, due to the retardation of intracellular APP maturation.	same
CLIC5	This gene encodes a member of the chloride intracellular channel (CLIC) family of chloride ion channels. The encoded protein associates with actin-based cytoskeletal structures and may play a role in multiple processes including hair cell stereocilia formation, myoblast proliferation and glomerular podocyte and endothelial cell maintenance. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	CLIC5 (Chloride Intracellular Channel 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLIC5 include deafness, autosomal recessive 103 and autosomal recessive non-syndromic sensorineural deafness type dfnb. Among its related pathways are Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include voltage-gated chloride channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLIC1.	Required for normal hearing (PubMed:24781754). It is necessary for the formation of stereocilia in the inner ear and normal development of the organ of Corti (By similarity). Can insert into membranes and form poorly selective ion channels that may also transport chloride ions. May play a role in the regulation of transepithelial ion absorption and secretion. Is required for the development and/or maintenance of the proper glomerular endothelial cell and podocyte architecture (PubMed:15184393, PubMed:18028448, PubMed:20335315).	same
CLTCL1	This gene is a member of the clathrin heavy chain family and encodes a major protein of the polyhedral coat of coated pits and vesicles. Chromosomal aberrations involving this gene are associated with meningioma, DiGeorge syndrome, and velo-cardio-facial syndrome. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]	CLTCL1 (Clathrin, Heavy Chain-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLTCL1 include atrioventricular septal defect and digeorge syndrome. Among its related pathways are Endocytosis and Lysosome. GO annotations related to this gene include signal transducer activity and structural molecule activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLTC.	Clathrin is the major protein of the polyhedral coat of coated pits and vesicles. Two different adapter protein complexes link the clathrin lattice either to the plasma membrane or to the trans-Golgi network (By similarity).	same
CLU	The protein encoded by this gene is a secreted chaperone that can under some stress conditions also be found in the cell cytosol. It has been suggested to be involved in several basic biological events such as cell death, tumor progression, and neurodegenerative disorders. Alternate splicing results in both coding and non-coding variants.[provided by RefSeq, May 2011]	CLU (Clusterin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLU include cystadenoma and ovarian cystadenoma. Among its related pathways are CREB Pathway and Hemostasis. GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin protein ligase binding and misfolded protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLUL1.	Isoform 1 functions as extracellular chaperone that prevents aggregation of nonnative proteins. Prevents stress-induced aggregation of blood plasma proteins. Inhibits formation of amyloid fibrils by APP, APOC2, B2M, CALCA, CSN3, SNCA and aggregation-prone LYZ variants (in vitro). Does not require ATP. Maintains partially unfolded proteins in a state appropriate for subsequent refolding by other chaperones, such as HSPA8/HSC70. Does not refold proteins by itself. Binding to cell surface receptors triggers internalization of the chaperone-client complex and subsequent lysosomal or proteasomal degradation. Secreted isoform 1 protects cells against apoptosis and against cytolysis by complement. Intracellular isoforms interact with ubiquitin and SCF (SKP1-CUL1-F-box protein) E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complexes and promote the ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of target proteins. Promotes proteasomal degradation of COMMD1 and IKBKB. Modulates NF-kappa-B transcriptional activity. Nuclear isoforms promote apoptosis. Mitochondrial isoforms suppress BAX-dependent release of cytochrome c into the cytoplasm and inhibit apoptosis. Plays a role in the regulation of cell proliferation.	same
CLVS1	empty	CLVS1 (Clavesin 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLVS1 include duane retraction syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity and phosphatidylinositol-3,5-bisphosphate binding. An important paralog of this gene is RLBP1.	Required for normal morphology of late endosomes and/or lysosomes in neurons (By similarity). Binds phosphatidylinositol 3,5-bisphosphate (PtdIns(3,5)P2).	same
CLVS2	This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the SEC14/CRAL-TRIO family of proteins. A similar protein in rat is thought to function in the endosomal pathway between early endosomes and mature lysosomes. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2013]	CLVS2 (Clavesin 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity and phosphatidylinositol-3,5-bisphosphate binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLVS1.	Required for normal morphology of late endosomes and/or lysosomes in neurons (By similarity). Binds phosphatidylinositol 3,5-bisphosphate (PtdIns(3,5)P2).	same
CMAH	Sialic acids are terminal components of the carbohydrate chains of glycoconjugates involved in ligand-receptor, cell-cell, and cell-pathogen interactions. The two most common forms of sialic acid found in mammalian cells are N-acetylneuraminic acid (Neu5Ac) and its hydroxylated derivative, N-glycolylneuraminic acid (Neu5Gc). Studies of sialic acid distribution show that Neu5Gc is not detectable in normal human tissues although it was an abundant sialic acid in other mammals. Neu5Gc is, in actuality, immunogenic in humans. The absense of Neu5Gc in humans is due to a deletion within the human gene CMAH encoding cytidine monophosphate-N-acetylneuraminic acid hydroxylase, an enzyme responsible for Neu5Gc biosynthesis. Sequences encoding the mouse, pig, and chimpanzee hydroxylase enzymes were obtained by cDNA cloning and found to be highly homologous. However, the homologous human cDNA differs from these cDNAs by a 92-bp deletion in the 5' region. This deletion, corresponding to exon 6 of the mouse hydroxylase gene, causes a frameshift mutation and premature termination of the polypeptide chain in human. It seems unlikely that the truncated human hydroxylase mRNA encodes for an active enzyme explaining why Neu5Gc is undetectable in normal human tissues. Human genomic DNA also shows evidence of this deletion which does not occur in the genomes of African great apes. Nonetheless, the CMAH gene maps to 6p21.32 in humans and great apes indicating that mutation of the CMAH gene occurred following human divergence from chimpanzees and bonobos. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CMAHP (Cytidine Monophospho-N-Acetylneuraminic Acid Hydroxylase, Pseudogene) is a Pseudogene. Diseases associated with CMAHP include charge syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include 2 iron, 2 sulfur cluster binding and CMP-N-acetylneuraminate monooxygenase activity.	Sialic acids are components of carbohydrate chains of glycoconjugates and are involved in cell-cell recognition and cell-pathogen interactions. That protein has no CMP-N-acetylneuraminate monooxygenase activity and is not able to convert CMP-N-acetylneuraminic acid (CMP-Neu5Ac) into its hydroxylated derivative CMP-N-glycolylneuraminic acid (CMP-Neu5Gc), a sialic acid abundantly expressed at the surface of many cells in vertebrates (PubMed:9624188). However, it may play a role in Wnt signaling (PubMed:19890979).	diff
CMA1	This gene product is a chymotryptic serine proteinase that belongs to the peptidase family S1. It is expressed in mast cells and thought to function in the degradation of the extracellular matrix, the regulation of submucosal gland secretion, and the generation of vasoactive peptides. In the heart and blood vessels, this protein, rather than angiotensin converting enzyme, is largely responsible for converting angiotensin I to the vasoactive peptide angiotensin II. Angiotensin II has been implicated in blood pressure control and in the pathogenesis of hypertension, cardiac hypertrophy, and heart failure. Thus, this gene product is a target for cardiovascular disease therapies. This gene maps to 14q11.2 in a cluster of genes encoding other proteases. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CMA1 (Chymase 1, Mast Cell) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CMA1 include idiopathic interstitial pneumonia and vernal keratoconjunctivitis. Among its related pathways are PI-3K cascade and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include serine-type endopeptidase activity and peptide binding. An important paralog of this gene is ELANE.	Major secreted protease of mast cells with suspected roles in vasoactive peptide generation, extracellular matrix degradation, and regulation of gland secretion	same
CMAS	Sialic acids are a family of nine-carbon sugars on cell surface glycoproteins and glycolipids that play a pivotal role in determining the structure and function of many animal tissues. The pattern of cell surface sialylation is highly regulated during embryonic development and N-glycosylation is a common post-translational modification during cellular differentiation. Sialic acids play important roles in cell-cell communications and immune responses. Sialylated glycoprotein and glycolipid formation requires the activation of a sialic acid to a cytidine monophosphate (CMP) diester by the enzyme encoded by this gene: CMP-N-acetylneuraminic acid synthetase. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]	CMAS (Cytidine Monophosphate N-Acetylneuraminic Acid Synthetase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CMAS include kidney sarcoma. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Amino sugar and nucleotide sugar metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include N-acylneuraminate cytidylyltransferase activity.	Catalyzes the activation of N-acetylneuraminic acid (NeuNAc) to cytidine 5-monophosphate N-acetylneuraminic acid (CMP-NeuNAc), a substrate required for the addition of sialic acid. Has some activity toward NeuNAc, N-glycolylneuraminic acid (Neu5Gc) or 2-keto-3-deoxy-D-glycero-D-galacto-nononic acid (KDN)	same
CLRN1OS	empty	CLRN1-AS1 (CLRN1 Antisense RNA 1) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
CMKLR1	empty	CMKLR1 (Chemerin Chemokine-Like Receptor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Peptide ligand-binding receptors. GO annotations related to this gene include G-protein coupled receptor activity and chemokine receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is FPR2.	Receptor for the chemoattractant adipokine chemerin/RARRES2 and for the omega-3 fatty acid derived molecule resolvin E1. Interaction with RARRES2 induces activation of intracellular signaling molecules, such as SKY, MAPK1/3 (ERK1/2), MAPK14/P38MAPK and PI3K leading to multifunctional effects, like, reduction of immune responses, enhancing of adipogenesis and angionesis. Resolvin E1 down-regulates cytokine production in macrophages by reducing the activation of MAPK1/3 (ERK1/2) and NF-kappa-B. Positively regulates adipogenesis and adipocyte metabolism. Acts as a coreceptor for several SIV strains (SIVMAC316, SIVMAC239, SIVMACL7E-FR and SIVSM62A), as well as a primary HIV-1 strain (92UG024-2).	same
CMC1	empty	CMC1 (C-X(9)-C Motif Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CMC1 include sturge-weber syndrome, somatic, mosaic and capillary malformations, congenital, 1, somatic, mosaic.	Required for mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase (COX) assembly and respiration.	same
CLYBL	empty	CLYBL (Citrate Lyase Beta Like) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include citrate (pro-3S)-lyase activity.	empty	same
CLRN2	This gene belongs to the clarin family of genes. The clarins appear to belong to a large superfamily of small integral membrane glycoproteins with four transmembrane domains. The exact function of this gene is unknown. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]	CLRN2 (Clarin 2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CLRN3.	empty	same
CLRN3	empty	CLRN3 (Clarin 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLRN3 include usher syndrome. An important paralog of this gene is CLRN1.	empty	same
CD70	The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that belongs to the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) ligand family. This cytokine is a ligand for TNFRSF27/CD27. It is a surface antigen on activated, but not on resting, T and B lymphocytes. It induces proliferation of costimulated T cells, enhances the generation of cytolytic T cells, and contributes to T cell activation. This cytokine is also reported to play a role in regulating B-cell activation, cytotoxic function of natural killer cells, and immunoglobulin sythesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CD70 (CD70 Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CD70 include acute myocarditis and myocarditis. Among its related pathways are Akt Signaling and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and protease binding.	Cytokine that binds to CD27. Plays a role in T-cell activation. Induces the proliferation of costimulated T-cells and enhances the generation of cytolytic T-cells	same
CMIP	This gene encodes a c-Maf inducing protein that plays a role in T-cell signaling pathway. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	CMIP (C-Maf Inducing Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cardiac Progenitor Differentiation and Regulation of Wnt-mediated beta catenin signaling and target gene transcription. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding.	Plays a role in T-cell signaling pathway. Isoform 2 may play a role in T-helper 2 (Th2) signaling pathway and seems to represent the first proximal signaling protein that links T-cell receptor-mediated signal to the activation of c-Maf Th2 specific factor.	same
CMPK2	This gene encodes one of the enzymes in the nucleotide synthesis salvage pathway that may participate in terminal differentiation of monocytic cells. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]	CMPK2 (Cytidine Monophosphate (UMP-CMP) Kinase 2, Mitochondrial) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and superpathway of pyrimidine deoxyribonucleotides de novo biosynthesis. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleoside diphosphate kinase activity and thymidylate kinase activity.	May participate in dUTP and dCTP synthesis in mitochondria. Is able to phosphorylate dUMP, dCMP, CMP, UMP and monophosphates of the pyrimidine nucleoside analogs ddC, dFdC, araC, BVDU and FdUrd with ATP as phosphate donor. Efficacy is highest for dUMP followed by dCMP; CMP and UMP are poor substrates. May be involved in mtDNA depletion caused by long term treatment with ddC or other pyrimidine analogs. Also displays broad nucleoside diphosphate kinase activity.	same
CMPK1	This gene encodes one of the enzymes required for cellular nucleic acid biosynthesis. This enzyme catalyzes the transfer of a phosphate group from ATP to CMP, UMP, or dCMP, to form the corresponding diphosphate nucleotide. Alternate splicing results in both coding and non-coding transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]	CMPK1 (Cytidine Monophosphate (UMP-CMP) Kinase 1, Cytosolic) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleoside diphosphate kinase activity and cytidylate kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is AK1.	Catalyzes the phosphorylation of pyrimidine nucleoside monophosphates at the expense of ATP. Plays an important role in de novo pyrimidine nucleotide biosynthesis. Has preference for UMP and CMP as phosphate acceptors. Also displays broad nucleoside diphosphate kinase activity.	same
CLUL1	empty	CLUL1 (Clusterin-Like 1 (Retinal)) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CLU.	empty	same
CMTM1	This gene belongs to the chemokine-like factor gene superfamily, a novel family that is similar to the chemokine and the transmembrane 4 superfamilies of signaling molecules. The protein encoded by this gene may play an important role in testicular development. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. Naturally occurring read-through transcription occurs between this locus and the neighboring locus CKLF (chemokine-like factor).[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]	CMTM1 (CKLF-Like MARVEL Transmembrane Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include cytokine activity. An important paralog of this gene is CKLF.	empty	same
CMTM3	This gene belongs to the chemokine-like factor gene superfamily, a novel family that is similar to the chemokine and the transmembrane 4 superfamilies of signaling molecules. This gene is one of several chemokine-like factor genes located in a cluster on chromosome 16. Alternatively spliced transcript variants containing different 5' UTRs, but encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CMTM3 (CKLF-Like MARVEL Transmembrane Domain Containing 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are B Cell Receptor Signaling Pathway (WikiPathways). GO annotations related to this gene include cytokine activity. An important paralog of this gene is PLP2.	empty	same
CMYA5	empty	CMYA5 (Cardiomyopathy Associated 5) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is FSD2.	May serve as an anchoring protein that mediates the subcellular compartmentation of protein kinase A (PKA) via binding to PRKAR2A (By similarity). May function as a repressor of calcineurin-mediated transcriptional activity. May attenuate calcineurin ability to induce slow-fiber gene program in muscle and may negatively modulate skeletal muscle regeneration (By similarity).	same
CLRN1	This gene encodes a protein that contains a cytosolic N-terminus, multiple helical transmembrane domains, and an endoplasmic reticulum membrane retention signal, TKGH, in the C-terminus. The encoded protein may be important in development and homeostasis of the inner ear and retina. Mutations within this gene have been associated with Usher syndrome type IIIa. Multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CLRN1 (Clarin 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CLRN1 include retinitis pigmentosa 61 and usher syndrome, type 3a. An important paralog of this gene is CLRN3.	May have a role in the excitatory ribbon synapse junctions between hair cells and cochlear ganglion cells and presumably also in analogous synapses within the retina.	same
CMBL	CMBL (EC 3.1.1.45) is a cysteine hydrolase of the dienelactone hydrolase family that is highly expressed in liver cytosol. CMBL preferentially cleaves cyclic esters, and it activates medoxomil-ester prodrugs in which the medoxomil moiety is linked to an oxygen atom (Ishizuka et al., 2010 [PubMed 20177059]).[supplied by OMIM, Apr 2010]	CMBL (Carboxymethylenebutenolidase Homolog (Pseudomonas)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrolase activity.	Cysteine hydrolase. Can convert the prodrug olmesartan medoxomil into its pharmacologically active metabolite olmerstatan, an angiotensin receptor blocker, in liver and intestine. May also activate beta-lactam antibiotics faropenem medoxomil and lenampicillin.	same
CMTM6	This gene belongs to the chemokine-like factor gene superfamily, a novel family that is similar to the chemokine and transmembrane 4 superfamilies. This gene is one of several chemokine-like factor genes located in a cluster on chromosome 3. This gene is widely expressed in many tissues, but the exact function of the encoded protein is unknown. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CMTM6 (CKLF-Like MARVEL Transmembrane Domain Containing 6) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include cytokine activity. An important paralog of this gene is CMTM4.	empty	same
CN5H6.4	empty	GTSE1-AS1 (GTSE1 Antisense RNA 1 (Head To Head)) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
CMTM4	This gene belongs to the chemokine-like factor gene superfamily, a novel family that is similar to the chemokine and the transmembrane 4 superfamilies of signaling molecules. This gene is one of several chemokine-like factor genes located in a cluster on chromosome 16. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CMTM4 (CKLF-Like MARVEL Transmembrane Domain Containing 4) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include cytokine activity. An important paralog of this gene is CMTM6.	empty	same
CNBD1	empty	CNBD1 (Cyclic Nucleotide Binding Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CMTM7	This gene belongs to the chemokine-like factor gene superfamily, a novel family that is similar to the chemokine and transmembrane 4 superfamilies. This gene is one of several chemokine-like factor genes located in a cluster on chromosome 3. The protein encoded by this gene is highly expressed in leukocytes, but its exact function is unknown. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CMTM7 (CKLF-Like MARVEL Transmembrane Domain Containing 7) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include cytokine activity.	empty	same
CNDP2	CNDP2, also known as tissue carnosinase and peptidase A (EC 3.4.13.18), is a nonspecific dipeptidase rather than a selective carnosinase (Teufel et al., 2003 [PubMed 12473676]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CNDP2 (CNDP Dipeptidase 2 (Metallopeptidase M20 Family)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CNDP2 include edwards syndrome. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Arginine and proline metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include metallopeptidase activity and dipeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CNDP1.	Hydrolyzes a variety of dipeptides including L-carnosine but has a strong preference for Cys-Gly. Isoform 2 may be play a role as tumor suppressor in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells.	same
CMTM2	This gene belongs to the chemokine-like factor gene superfamily, a novel family that links the chemokine and the transmembrane 4 superfamilies of signaling molecules. The protein encoded by this gene may play an important role in testicular development. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CMTM2 (CKLF-Like MARVEL Transmembrane Domain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Coregulation of Androgen receptor activity. GO annotations related to this gene include cytokine activity.	empty	same
CNFN	empty	CNFN (Cornifelin) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is PLAC8L1.	Part of the insoluble cornified cell envelope (CE) of stratified squamous epithelia.	same
CNDP1	This gene encodes a member of the M20 metalloprotease family. The encoded protein is specifically expressed in the brain, is a homodimeric dipeptidase which was identified as human carnosinase. This gene contains trinucleotide (CTG) repeat length polymorphism in the coding region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CNDP1 (Carnosine Dipeptidase 1 (Metallopeptidase M20 Family)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CNDP1 include homocarnosinosis. Among its related pathways are Arginine and proline metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include metallopeptidase activity and dipeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CNDP2.	empty	same
CNGA3	This gene encodes a member of the cyclic nucleotide-gated cation channel protein family which is required for normal vision and olfactory signal transduction. Mutations in this gene are associated with achromatopsia (rod monochromacy) and color blindness. Two alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CNGA3 (Cyclic Nucleotide Gated Channel Alpha 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CNGA3 include achromatopsia-2 and color blindness. Among its related pathways are CREB Pathway and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include voltage-gated potassium channel activity and ligand-gated ion channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is KCNH1.	Visual signal transduction is mediated by a G-protein coupled cascade using cGMP as second messenger. This protein can be activated by cyclic GMP which leads to an opening of the cation channel and thereby causing a depolarization of cone photoreceptors. Induced a flickering channel gating, weakened the outward rectification in the presence of extracellular calcium, increased sensitivity for L-cis diltiazem and enhanced the cAMP efficacy of the channel when coexpressed with CNGB3 (By similarity). Essential for the generation of light-evoked electrical responses in the red-, green- and blue sensitive cones.	same
CNGA2	The protein encoded by this gene represents the alpha subunit of a cyclic nucleotide-gated olfactory channel. The encoded protein contains a carboxy-terminal leucine zipper that mediates channel formation. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]	CNGA2 (Cyclic Nucleotide Gated Channel Alpha 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CNGA2 include neuroblastoma. GO annotations related to this gene include calmodulin binding and cAMP binding. An important paralog of this gene is KCNH1.	Odorant signal transduction is probably mediated by a G-protein coupled cascade using cAMP as second messenger. The olfactory channel can be shown to be activated by cyclic nucleotides which leads to a depolarization of olfactory sensory neurons	same
CNGA4	CNGA4 is a modulatory subunit of vertebrate cyclic nucleotide-gated membrane channels that transduce odorant signals (Munger et al., 2001 [PubMed 11739959]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CNGA4 (Cyclic Nucleotide Gated Channel Alpha 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are CREB Pathway and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include voltage-gated potassium channel activity and cGMP binding. An important paralog of this gene is KCNH1.	Second messenger, cAMP, causes the opening of cation-selective cyclic nucleotide-gated (CNG) channels and depolarization of the neuron (olfactory sensory neurons, OSNs). CNGA4 is the modulatory subunit of this channel which is known to play a central role in the transduction of odorant signals and subsequent adaptation. By accelerating the calcium-mediated negative feedback in olfactory signaling it allows rapid adaptation to odor stimulation and extends its range of odor detection (By similarity).	same
CNGB1	In humans, the rod photoreceptor cGMP-gated cation channel helps regulate ion flow into the rod photoreceptor outer segment in response to light-induced alteration of the levels of intracellular cGMP. This channel consists of two subunits, alpha and beta, with the protein encoded by this gene representing the beta subunit. Defects in this gene are a cause of cause of retinitis pigmentosa type 45. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2013]	CNGB1 (Cyclic Nucleotide Gated Channel Beta 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CNGB1 include retinitis pigmentosa 45 and cngb1-related retinitis pigmentosa. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include voltage-gated potassium channel activity and cGMP binding. An important paralog of this gene is KCNH1.	Subunit of cyclic nucleotide-gated (CNG) channels, nonselective cation channels, which play important roles in both visual and olfactory signal transduction. When associated with CNGA1, it is involved in the regulation of ion flow into the rod photoreceptor outer segment (ROS), in response to light-induced alteration of the levels of intracellular cGMP	same
CNIH2	The protein encoded by this gene is an auxiliary subunit of the ionotropic glutamate receptor of the AMPA subtype. AMPA receptors mediate fast synaptic neurotransmission in the central nervous system. This protein has been reported to interact with the Type I AMPA receptor regulatory protein isoform gamma-8 to control assembly of hippocampal AMPA receptor complexes, thereby modulating receptor gating and pharmacology. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012]	CNIH2 (Cornichon Family AMPA Receptor Auxiliary Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CNIH4.	Regulates the trafficking and gating properties of AMPA-selective glutamate receptors (AMPARs). Promotes their targeting to the cell membrane and synapses and modulates their gating properties by regulating their rates of activation, deactivation and desensitization. Blocks CACNG8-mediated resensitization of AMPA receptors.	same
CNIH	empty	CNIH1 (Cornichon Family AMPA Receptor Auxiliary Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CNIH4.	Involved in the selective transport and maturation of TGF-alpha family proteins.	diff
CNBP	This gene encodes a nucleic-acid binding protein with seven zinc-finger domains. The protein has a preference for binding single stranded DNA and RNA. The protein functions in cap-independent translation of ornithine decarboxylase mRNA, and may also function in sterol-mediated transcriptional regulation. A CCTG expansion in the first intron of this gene results in myotonic dystrophy type 2. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CNBP (CCHC-Type Zinc Finger, Nucleic Acid Binding Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CNBP include myotonic dystrophy 2 and nondystrophic myotonia. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and single-stranded RNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is ZCCHC13.	Single-stranded DNA-binding protein, with specificity to the sterol regulatory element (SRE). Involved in sterol-mediated repression	same
CNIH3	empty	CNIH3 (Cornichon Family AMPA Receptor Auxiliary Protein 3) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include channel regulator activity. An important paralog of this gene is CNIH4.	Regulates the trafficking and gating properties of AMPA-selective glutamate receptors (AMPARs). Promotes their targeting to the cell membrane and synapses and modulates their gating properties by regulating their rates of activation, deactivation and desensitization.	same
CNKSR1	This gene encodes a protein containing several motifs involved in protein-protein interaction, including PDZ, PH (Pleckstrin homology), and SAM (sterile alpha motif) domains. The encoded protein acts as a scaffold component for receptor tyrosine kinase signaling and may mediate crosstalk between different signaling pathways. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]	CNKSR1 (Connector Enhancer Of Kinase Suppressor Of Ras 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and protein binding, bridging. An important paralog of this gene is IPCEF1.	May function as an adapter protein or regulator of Ras signaling pathways	same
CNKSR2	This gene encodes a multidomain protein that functions as a scaffold protein to mediate the mitogen-activated protein kinase pathways downstream from Ras. This gene product is induced by vitamin D and inhibits apoptosis in certain cancer cells. It may also play a role in ternary complex assembly of synaptic proteins at the postsynaptic membrane and coupling of signal transduction to membrane/cytoskeletal remodeling. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]	CNKSR2 (Connector Enhancer Of Kinase Suppressor Of Ras 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is CNKSR1.	May function as an adapter protein or regulator of Ras signaling pathways.	same
CNKSR3	empty	CNKSR3 (CNKSR Family Member 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Ras signaling pathway and G-protein signaling_H-RAS regulation pathway. An important paralog of this gene is CNKSR1.	Probably involved in transepithelial sodium transport. Regulates aldosterone-induced and ENaC-mediated sodium transport possibly through regulation of the ERK pathway (By similarity).	same
CNIH4	empty	CNIH4 (Cornichon Family AMPA Receptor Auxiliary Protein 4) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CNIH2.	Involved in G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) trafficking from the endoplasmic reticulum to the cell surface; it promotes the exit of GPCRs from the early secretory pathway, likely through interaction with the COPII machinery (PubMed:24405750).	same
CMTM8	This gene belongs to the chemokine-like factor gene superfamily, a novel family that is similar to the chemokine and the transmembrane 4 superfamilies. This gene is one of several chemokine-like factor genes located in a cluster on chromosome 3. This gene is widely expressed in many tissues, but the exact function of the encoded protein is unknown. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CMTM8 (CKLF-Like MARVEL Transmembrane Domain Containing 8) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include cytokine activity. An important paralog of this gene is PLLP.	empty	same
CNN1	empty	CNN1 (Calponin 1, Basic, Smooth Muscle) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Myometrial Relaxation and Contraction Pathways and Endothelin. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding and calmodulin binding. An important paralog of this gene is CNN3.	Thin filament-associated protein that is implicated in the regulation and modulation of smooth muscle contraction. It is capable of binding to actin, calmodulin, troponin C and tropomyosin. The interaction of calponin with actin inhibits the actomyosin Mg-ATPase activity (By similarity).	same
CNGB3	This gene encodes the beta subunit of a cyclic nucleotide-gated ion channel. The encoded beta subunit appears to play a role in modulation of channel function in cone photoreceptors. This heterotetrameric channel is necessary for sensory transduction, and mutations in this gene have been associated with achromatopsia 3, progressive cone dystrophy, and juvenile macular degeneration, also known as Stargardt Disease. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]	CNGB3 (Cyclic Nucleotide Gated Channel Beta 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CNGB3 include achromatopsia-3 and achromatopsia. Among its related pathways are CREB Pathway and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include voltage-gated potassium channel activity and intracellular cAMP activated cation channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is KCNH1.	Visual signal transduction is mediated by a G-protein coupled cascade using cGMP as second messenger. This protein can be activated by cGMP which leads to an opening of the cation channel and thereby causing a depolarization of rod photoreceptors. Induced a flickering channel gating, weakened the outward rectification in the presence of extracellular calcium, increased sensitivity for L-cis diltiazem and enhanced the cAMP efficiency of the channel when coexpressed with CNGA3 (By similarity). Essential for the generation of light-evoked electrical responses in the red-, green- and blue sensitive cones.	same
CNN2	The protein encoded by this gene, which can bind actin, calmodulin, troponin C, and tropomyosin, may function in the structural organization of actin filaments. The encoded protein could play a role in smooth muscle contraction and cell adhesion. Several pseudogenes of this gene have been identified, and are present on chromosomes 1, 2, 3, 6, 9, 11, 13, 15, 16, 21 and 22. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2015]	CNN2 (Calponin 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Myometrial Relaxation and Contraction Pathways. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding and calmodulin binding. An important paralog of this gene is CNN3.	Thin filament-associated protein that is implicated in the regulation and modulation of smooth muscle contraction. It is capable of binding to actin, calmodulin, troponin C and tropomyosin. The interaction of calponin with actin inhibits the actomyosin Mg-ATPase activity	same
CNN3	This gene encodes a protein with a markedly acidic C terminus; the basic N-terminus is highly homologous to the N-terminus of a related gene, CNN1. Members of the CNN gene family all contain similar tandemly repeated motifs. This encoded protein is associated with the cytoskeleton but is not involved in contraction. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CNN3 (Calponin 3, Acidic) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding and microtubule binding. An important paralog of this gene is TAGLN2.	Thin filament-associated protein that is implicated in the regulation and modulation of smooth muscle contraction. It is capable of binding to actin, calmodulin, troponin C and tropomyosin. The interaction of calponin with actin inhibits the actomyosin Mg-ATPase activity	same
CNNM1	empty	CNNM1 (Cyclin And CBS Domain Divalent Metal Cation Transport Mediator 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include adenyl nucleotide binding. An important paralog of this gene is CNNM2.	Probable metal transporter.	same
CNNM2	This gene encodes a member of the ancient conserved domain containing protein family. Members of this protein family contain a cyclin box motif and have structural similarity to the cyclins. The encoded protein may play an important role in magnesium homeostasis by mediating the epithelial transport and renal reabsorption of Mg2+. Mutations in this gene are associated with renal hypomagnesemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	CNNM2 (Cyclin And CBS Domain Divalent Metal Cation Transport Mediator 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CNNM2 include hypomagnesemia 6, renal and hypomagnesemia 6. GO annotations related to this gene include adenyl nucleotide binding. An important paralog of this gene is CNNM1.	Divalent metal cation transporter. Mediates transport of divalent metal cations in an order of Mg(2+) > Co(2+) > Mn(2+) > Sr(2+) > Ba(2+) > Cu(2+) > Fe(2+) (By similarity).	same
CNNM3	empty	CNNM3 (Cyclin And CBS Domain Divalent Metal Cation Transport Mediator 3) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include adenyl nucleotide binding. An important paralog of this gene is CNNM2.	Probable metal transporter.	same
CNGA1	The protein encoded by this gene is involved in phototransduction. Along with another protein, the encoded protein forms a cGMP-gated cation channel in the plasma membrane, allowing depolarization of rod photoreceptors. This represents the last step in the phototransduction pathway. Defects in this gene are a cause of retinitis pigmentosa autosomal recessive (ARRP) disease. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]	CNGA1 (Cyclic Nucleotide Gated Channel Alpha 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CNGA1 include retinitis pigmentosa 49 and cnga1-related retinitis pigmentosa. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include voltage-gated potassium channel activity and intracellular cAMP activated cation channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is KCNH1.	Visual signal transduction is mediated by a G-protein coupled cascade using cGMP as second messenger. This protein can be activated by cyclic GMP which leads to an opening of the cation channel and thereby causing a depolarization of rod photoreceptors	same
CNNM4	This gene encodes a member of the ancient conserved domain containing protein family. Members of this protein family contain a cyclin box motif and have structural similarity to the cyclins. The encoded protein may play a role in metal ion transport. Mutations in this gene are associated with Jalili syndrome which consists of cone-rod dystrophy and amelogenesis imperfecta. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]	CNNM4 (Cyclin And CBS Domain Divalent Metal Cation Transport Mediator 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CNNM4 include jalili syndrome and amelogenesis imperfecta. GO annotations related to this gene include adenyl nucleotide binding. An important paralog of this gene is CNNM2.	Probable metal transporter. The interaction with the metal ion chaperone COX11 suggests that it may play a role in sensory neuron functions (By similarity). May play a role in biomineralization and retinal function.	same
CNOT3	empty	CNOT3 (CCR4-NOT Transcription Complex, Subunit 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CNOT3 include precursor t-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and Deadenylation-dependent mRNA decay.	Component of the CCR4-NOT complex which is one of the major cellular mRNA deadenylases and is linked to various cellular processes including bulk mRNA degradation, miRNA-mediated repression, translational repression during translational initiation and general transcription regulation. Additional complex functions may be a consequence of its influence on mRNA expression. May be involved in metabolic regulation; may be involved in recruitment of the CCR4-NOT complex to deadenylation target mRNAs involved in energy metabolism. Involved in mitotic progression and regulation of the spindle assembly checkpoint by regulating the stability of MAD1L1 mRNA. Can repress transcription and may link the CCR4-NOT complex to transcriptional regulation; the repressive function may involve histone deacetylases. Involved in the maintenance of emryonic stem (ES) cell identity.	same
CNOT1	empty	CNOT1 (CCR4-NOT Transcription Complex, Subunit 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and Deadenylation-dependent mRNA decay. GO annotations related to this gene include retinoic acid receptor binding and poly(A)-specific ribonuclease activity.	Scaffolding component of the CCR4-NOT complex which is one of the major cellular mRNA deadenylases and is linked to various cellular processes including bulk mRNA degradation, miRNA-mediated repression, translational repression during translational initiation and general transcription regulation. Additional complex functions may be a consequence of its influence on mRNA expression. Its scaffolding function implies its interaction with the catalytic complex module and diverse RNA-binding proteins mediating the complex recruitment to selected mRNA 3UTRs. Involved in degradation of AU-rich element (ARE)-containing mRNAs probably via association with ZFP36. Mediates the recruitment of the CCR4-NOT complex to miRNA targets and to the RISC complex via association with TNRC6A, TNRC6B or TNRC6C. Acts as a transcriptional repressor. Represses the ligand-dependent transcriptional activation by nuclear receptors. Involved in the maintenance of emryonic stem (ES) cell identity.	same
CNOT2	This gene encodes a subunit of the multi-component CCR4-NOT complex. The CCR4-NOT complex regulates mRNA synthesis and degradation and is also thought to be involved in mRNA splicing, transport and localization. The encoded protein interacts with histone deacetylases and functions as a repressor of polymerase II transcription. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]	CNOT2 (CCR4-NOT Transcription Complex, Subunit 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Translational Control and Gene Expression. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA polymerase II transcription cofactor activity and RNA polymerase II transcription corepressor binding.	Component of the CCR4-NOT complex which is one of the major cellular mRNA deadenylases and is linked to various cellular processes including bulk mRNA degradation, miRNA-mediated repression, translational repression during translational initiation and general transcription regulation. Additional complex functions may be a consequence of its influence on mRNA expression. Required for the CCR4-NOT complex structural integrity. Can repress transcription and may link the CCR4-NOT complex to transcriptional regulation; the repressive function may specificly involve the N-Cor repressor complex containing HDAC3, NCOR1 and NCOR2. Involved in the maintenance of emryonic stem (ES) cell identity.	same
CNOT6L	empty	CNOT6L (CCR4-NOT Transcription Complex, Subunit 6-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and Deadenylation-dependent mRNA decay. GO annotations related to this gene include poly(A)-specific ribonuclease activity. An important paralog of this gene is PDE12.	Has 3-5 poly(A) exoribonuclease activity for synthetic poly(A) RNA substrate. Catalytic component of the CCR4-NOT complex which is one of the major cellular mRNA deadenylases and is linked to various cellular processes including bulk mRNA degradation, miRNA-mediated repression, translational repression during translational initiation and general transcription regulation. Additional complex functions may be a consequence of its influence on mRNA expression. May be involved in the deadenylation-dependent degradation of mRNAs through the 3-UTR AU-rich element-mediated mechanism. Involved in deadenylation-dependent degradation of CDKN1B mRNA. Its mRNA deadenylase activity can be inhibited by TOB1. Mediates cell proliferation and cell survival and prevents cellular senescence.	same
CNOT6	This gene encodes the catalytic component of the CCR4-NOT core transcriptional regulation complex. The encoded protein has a 3'-5' RNase activity and prefers polyadenylated substrates. The CCR4-NOT complex plays a role in many cellular processes, including miRNA-mediated repression, mRNA degradation, and transcriptional regulation. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2014]	CNOT6 (CCR4-NOT Transcription Complex, Subunit 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and poly(A)-specific ribonuclease activity. An important paralog of this gene is PDE12.	Poly(A) nuclease with 3-5 RNase activity. Catalytic component of the CCR4-NOT complex which is one of the major cellular mRNA deadenylases and is linked to various cellular processes including bulk mRNA degradation, miRNA-mediated repression, translational repression during translational initiation and general transcription regulation. Additional complex functions may be a consequence of its influence on mRNA expression. Involved in mRNA decay mediated by the major-protein-coding determinant of instability (mCRD) of the FOS gene in the cytoplasm. In the presence of ZNF335, enhances ligand-dependent transcriptional activity of nuclear hormone receptors, including RARA. The increase of ligand-dependent ESR1-mediated transcription is much smaller, if any. Mediates cell proliferation and cell survival and prevents cellular senescence.	same
CNOT4	The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of the CCR4-NOT complex, a global transcriptional regulator. The encoded protein interacts with CNOT1 and has E3 ubiquitin ligase activity. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]	CNOT4 (CCR4-NOT Transcription Complex, Subunit 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and Deadenylation-dependent mRNA decay. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and ubiquitin-protein transferase activity.	Has E3 ubiquitin ligase activity. Involved in activation of the JAK/STAT pathway.	same
CNOT7	The protein encoded by this gene binds to an anti-proliferative protein, B-cell translocation protein 1, which negatively regulates cell proliferation. Binding of the two proteins, which is driven by phosphorylation of the anti-proliferative protein, causes signaling events in cell division that lead to changes in cell proliferation associated with cell-cell contact. The encoded protein downregulates the innate immune response and therefore provides a therapeutic target for enhancing its antimicrobial activity against foreign agents. Alternate splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	CNOT7 (CCR4-NOT Transcription Complex, Subunit 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and Deadenylation-dependent mRNA decay. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and signal transducer activity. An important paralog of this gene is CNOT8.	Has 3-5 poly(A) exoribonuclease activity for synthetic poly(A) RNA substrate. Its function seems to be partially redundant with that of CNOT8. Catalytic component of the CCR4-NOT complex which is one of the major cellular mRNA deadenylases and is linked to various cellular processes including bulk mRNA degradation, miRNA-mediated repression, translational repression during translational initiation and general transcription regulation. During miRNA-mediated repression the complex seems also to act as translational repressor during translational initiation. Additional complex functions may be a consequence of its influence on mRNA expression. Associates with members of the BTG family such as TOB1 and BTG2 and is required for their anti-proliferative activity.	same
CNPY2	empty	CNPY2 (Canopy FGF Signaling Regulator 2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000144785.	Positive regulator of neurite outgrowth by stabilizing myosin regulatory light chain (MRLC). It prevents MIR-mediated MRLC ubiquitination and its subsequent proteasomal degradation	same
CNOT8	empty	CNOT8 (CCR4-NOT Transcription Complex, Subunit 8) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CNOT8 include microsporidiosis. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and Deadenylation-dependent mRNA decay. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and 3-5-exoribonuclease activity. An important paralog of this gene is CNOT7.	Has 3-5 poly(A) exoribonuclease activity for synthetic poly(A) RNA substrate. Its function seems to be partially redundant with that of CNOT7. Catalytic component of the CCR4-NOT complex which is linked to various cellular processes including bulk mRNA degradation, miRNA-mediated repression, translational repression during translational initiation and general transcription regulation. During miRNA-mediated repression the complex seems also to act as translational repressor during translational initiation. Additional complex functions may be a consequence of its influence on mRNA expression. Associates with members of the BTG family such as TOB1 and BTG2 and is required for their anti-proliferative activity.	same
CNPY4	empty	CNPY4 (Canopy FGF Signaling Regulator 4) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding. An important paralog of this gene is CNPY3.	Plays a role in the regulation of the cell surface expression of TLR4.	same
CMTM5	This gene encodes a member of the chemokine-like factor superfamily. This family of genes encodes multi-pass membrane proteins that are similar to both the chemokine and the transmembrane 4 superfamilies of signaling molecules. The encoded protein may exhibit tumor suppressor activity. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2014]	CMTM5 (CKLF-Like MARVEL Transmembrane Domain Containing 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CMTM5 include ovarian cystadenoma. GO annotations related to this gene include cytokine activity. An important paralog of this gene is PLP2.	empty	same
CNR1	This gene encodes one of two cannabinoid receptors. The cannabinoids, principally delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol and synthetic analogs, are psychoactive ingredients of marijuana. The cannabinoid receptors are members of the guanine-nucleotide-binding protein (G-protein) coupled receptor family, which inhibit adenylate cyclase activity in a dose-dependent, stereoselective and pertussis toxin-sensitive manner. The two receptors have been found to be involved in the cannabinoid-induced CNS effects (including alterations in mood and cognition) experienced by users of marijuana. Multiple transcript variants encoding two different protein isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2009]	CNR1 (Cannabinoid Receptor 1 (Brain)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CNR1 include cannabis dependence and pertussis. Among its related pathways are Ras signaling pathway and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include drug binding and cannabinoid receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is LPAR1.	Involved in cannabinoid-induced CNS effects. Acts by inhibiting adenylate cyclase. Could be a receptor for anandamide. Inhibits L-type Ca(2+) channel current. Isoform 2 and isoform 3 have altered ligand binding.	same
CNR2	The cannabinoid delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol is the principal psychoactive ingredient of marijuana. The proteins encoded by this gene and the cannabinoid receptor 1 (brain) (CNR1) gene have the characteristics of a guanine nucleotide-binding protein (G-protein)-coupled receptor for cannabinoids. They inhibit adenylate cyclase activity in a dose-dependent, stereoselective, and pertussis toxin-sensitive manner. These proteins have been found to be involved in the cannabinoid-induced CNS effects (including alterations in mood and cognition) experienced by users of marijuana. The cannabinoid receptors are members of family 1 of the G-protein-coupled receptors. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CNR2 (Cannabinoid Receptor 2 (Macrophage)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CNR2 include pertussis and chronic pain. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include cannabinoid receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is LPAR1.	Heterotrimeric G protein-coupled receptor for endocannabinoid 2-arachidonoylglycerol mediating inhibition of adenylate cyclase. May function in inflammatory response, nociceptive transmission and bone homeostasis.	same
CNTD1	empty	CNTD1 (Cyclin N-Terminal Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CNST	Targeting of numerous transmembrane proteins to the cell surface is thought to depend on their recognition by cargo receptors that interact with the adaptor machinery for anterograde traffic at the distal end of the Golgi complex. Consortin (CNST) is an integral membrane protein that acts as a binding partner of connexins, the building blocks of gap junctions, and acts as a trans-Golgi network (TGN) receptor involved in connexin targeting to the plasma membrane and recycling from the cell surface (del Castillo et al., 2010 [PubMed 19864490]).[supplied by OMIM, Jun 2010]	CNST (Consortin, Connexin Sorting Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include phosphatase binding and connexin binding.	Required for targeting of connexins to the plasma membrane.	same
CNTD2	empty	CNTD2 (Cyclin N-Terminal Domain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding.	empty	same
CNP	empty	CNP (2',3'-Cyclic Nucleotide 3' Phosphodiesterase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CNP include hair disease and mannosidosis. Among its related pathways are Neuroscience and Glial Cell Differentiation. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and 2,3-cyclic-nucleotide 3-phosphodiesterase activity.	May participate in RNA metabolism in the myelinating cell, CNP is the third most abundant protein in central nervous system myelin.	same
CNPY3	PRAT4A is associated with the immature form of TLR4 (MIM 603030) and regulates its cell surface expression (Wakabayashi et al., 2006 [PubMed 16849487]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CNPY3 (Canopy FGF Signaling Regulator 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CNPY3 include swayback. Among its related pathways are Trafficking and processing of endosomal TLR. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding. An important paralog of this gene is CNPY4.	Toll-like receptor (TLR)-specific co-chaperone for HSP90B1. Required for proper TLR folding, except that of TLR3, and hence controls TLR exit from the endoplasmic reticulum. Consequently, required for both innate and adaptive immune responses (By similarity).	same
CNTFR	This gene encodes a member of the type 1 cytokine receptor family. The encoded protein is the ligand-specific component of a tripartite receptor for ciliary neurotrophic factor, which plays a critical role in neuronal cell survival, differentiation and gene expression. Binding of ciliary neurotrophic factor to the encoded protein recruits the transmembrane components of the receptor, gp130 and leukemia inhibitory factor receptor, facilitating signal transduction. Single nucleotide polymorphisms in this gene may be associated with variations in muscle strength, as well as early onset of eating disorders. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]	CNTFR (Ciliary Neurotrophic Factor Receptor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CNTFR include choroid cancer and cold-induced sweating syndrome. Among its related pathways are Adipogenesis and PEDF Induced Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is IL11RA.	Binds to CNTF. The alpha subunit provides the receptor specificity	same
CNTF	The protein encoded by this gene is a polypeptide hormone whose actions appear to be restricted to the nervous system where it promotes neurotransmitter synthesis and neurite outgrowth in certain neuronal populations. The protein is a potent survival factor for neurons and oligodendrocytes and may be relevant in reducing tissue destruction during inflammatory attacks. A mutation in this gene, which results in aberrant splicing, leads to ciliary neurotrophic factor deficiency, but this phenotype is not causally related to neurologic disease. A read-through transcript variant composed of the upstream ZFP91 gene and CNTF sequence has been identified, but it is thought to be non-coding. Read-through transcription of ZFP91 and CNTF has also been observed in mouse. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]	CNTF (Ciliary Neurotrophic Factor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CNTF include spinal cord injury and acute disseminated encephalomyelitis. Among its related pathways are PEDF Induced Signaling and CNTF Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include growth factor activity and ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor binding.	CNTF is a survival factor for various neuronal cell types. Seems to prevent the degeneration of motor axons after axotomy	same
CNTN3	empty	CNTN3 (Contactin 3 (Plasmacytoma Associated)) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is PRTG.	Contactins mediate cell surface interactions during nervous system development. Has some neurite outgrowth-promoting activity (By similarity).	same
CNTN1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily. It is a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored neuronal membrane protein that functions as a cell adhesion molecule. It may play a role in the formation of axon connections in the developing nervous system. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	CNTN1 (Contactin 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CNTN1 include myopathy, congenital, compton-north and congenital lethal myopathy, compton-north type. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding and glycoprotein binding. An important paralog of this gene is PRTG.	Contactins mediate cell surface interactions during nervous system development. Involved in the formation of paranodal axo-glial junctions in myelinated peripheral nerves and in the signaling between axons and myelinating glial cells via its association with CNTNAP1. Participates in oligodendrocytes generation by acting as a ligand of NOTCH1. Its association with NOTCH1 promotes NOTCH1 activation through the released notch intracellular domain (NICD) and subsequent translocation to the nucleus. Interaction with TNR induces a repulsion of neurons and an inhibition of neurite outgrowth (By similarity).	same
CNTLN	empty	CNTLN (Centlein, Centrosomal Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include phosphorelay sensor kinase activity.	empty	same
CNTN2	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily. It is a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored neuronal membrane protein that functions as a cell adhesion molecule. It may play a role in the formation of axon connections in the developing nervous system. It may also be involved in glial tumorigenesis and may provide a potential target for therapeutic intervention. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CNTN2 (Contactin 2 (Axonal)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CNTN2 include epilepsy, familial adult myoclonic, 5 and benign adult familial myoclonic epilepsy. Among its related pathways are L1CAM interactions and L1CAM interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and glycoprotein binding. An important paralog of this gene is PRTG.	In conjunction with another transmembrane protein, CNTNAP2, contributes to the organization of axonal domains at nodes of Ranvier by maintaining voltage-gated potassium channels at the juxtaparanodal region. May be involved in cell adhesion.	same
CNTN4	This gene encodes a member of the contactin family of immunoglobulins. Contactins are axon-associated cell adhesion molecules that function in neuronal network formation and plasticity. The encoded protein is a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored neuronal membrane protein that may play a role in the formation of axon connections in the developing nervous system. Deletion or mutation of this gene may play a role in 3p deletion syndrome and autism spectrum disorders. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]	CNTN4 (Contactin 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CNTN4 include distal monosomy 3p and 3p deletion syndrome. An important paralog of this gene is PRTG.	Contactins mediate cell surface interactions during nervous system development. Has some neurite outgrowth-promoting activity. May be involved in synaptogenesis	same
CNO	This intronless gene encodes a protein that may play a role in organelle biogenesis associated with melanosomes, platelet dense granules, and lysosomes. A similar protein in mouse is a component of a protein complex termed biogenesis of lysosome-related organelles complex 1 (BLOC-1), and is a model for Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome. The encoded protein may play a role in intracellular vesicular trafficking. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	BLOC1S4 (Biogenesis Of Lysosomal Organelles Complex-1, Subunit 4, Cappuccino) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with BLOC1S4 include hermansky-pudlak syndrome. Among its related pathways are Clathrin derived vesicle budding and Clathrin derived vesicle budding. An important paralog of this gene is BCAS4.	Component of the BLOC-1 complex, a complex that is required for normal biogenesis of lysosome-related organelles (LRO), such as platelet dense granules and melanosomes. In concert with the AP-3 complex, the BLOC-1 complex is required to target membrane protein cargos into vesicles assembled at cell bodies for delivery into neurites and nerve terminals. The BLOC-1 complex, in association with SNARE proteins, is also proposed to be involved in neurite extension. Plays a role in intracellular vesicle trafficking.	diff
CNPY1	Cnpy1 is expressed in the midbrain-hindbrain (MHB) boundary in zebrafish, binds FGFR1 (MIM 136350), and plays a role in FGF signaling (Hirate and Okamoto, 2006 [PubMed 16488878]).[supplied by OMIM, Dec 2008]	CNPY1 (Canopy FGF Signaling Regulator 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000144785.	empty	same
CNTNAP2	This gene encodes a member of the neurexin family which functions in the vertebrate nervous system as cell adhesion molecules and receptors. This protein, like other neurexin proteins, contains epidermal growth factor repeats and laminin G domains. In addition, it includes an F5/8 type C domain, discoidin/neuropilin- and fibrinogen-like domains, thrombospondin N-terminal-like domains and a putative PDZ binding site. This protein is localized at the juxtaparanodes of myelinated axons, and mediates interactions between neurons and glia during nervous system development and is also involved in localization of potassium channels within differentiating axons. This gene encompasses almost 1.5% of chromosome 7 and is one of the largest genes in the human genome. It is directly bound and regulated by forkhead box protein P2 (FOXP2), a transcription factor related to speech and language development. This gene has been implicated in multiple neurodevelopmental disorders, including Gilles de la Tourette syndrome, schizophrenia, epilepsy, autism, ADHD and mental retardation.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]	CNTNAP2 (Contactin Associated Protein-Like 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CNTNAP2 include cortical dysplasia-focal epilepsy syndrome and autism susceptibility 15. Among its related pathways are Neuroscience and Cell adhesion molecules (CAMs). GO annotations related to this gene include enzyme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CNTNAP1.	May play a role in the formation of functional distinct domains critical for saltatory conduction of nerve impulses in myelinated nerve fibers. Seems to demarcate the juxtaparanodal region of the axo-glial junction (By similarity).	same
CNTNAP3	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the NCP family of cell-recognition molecules. This family represents a distinct subgroup of the neurexins. NCP proteins mediate neuron-glial interactions in vertebrates and glial-glial contact in invertebrates. The protein encoded by this gene may play a role in cell recognition within the nervous system. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described but their biological nature has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CNTNAP3 (Contactin Associated Protein-Like 3) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CNTNAP1.	empty	same
CNRIP1	This gene encodes a protein that interacts with the C-terminal tail of cannabinoid receptor 1. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]	CNRIP1 (Cannabinoid Receptor Interacting Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	Isoform 1 suppresses cannabinoid receptor CNR1-mediated tonic inhibition of voltage-gated calcium channels. Isoform 2 does not have this effect.	same
CNTN6	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily. It is a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored neuronal membrane protein that functions as a cell adhesion molecule. It may play a role in the formation of axon connections in the developing nervous system. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2014]	CNTN6 (Contactin 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are L1CAM interactions and L1CAM interactions. An important paralog of this gene is PRTG.	Contactins mediate cell surface interactions during nervous system development. Participates in oligodendrocytes generation by acting as a ligand of NOTCH1. Its association with NOTCH1 promotes NOTCH1 activation through the released notch intracellular domain (NICD) and subsequent translocation to the nucleus. Involved in motor coordination (By similarity).	same
CNTROB	This gene encodes a centrosomal protein that interacts with BRCA2, and is required for centriole duplication and cytokinesis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	CNTROB (Centrobin, Centrosomal BRCA2 Interacting Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein domain specific binding.	Required for centriole duplication. Inhibition of centriole duplication leading to defects in cytokinesis.	same
CNTN5	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily, and contactin family, which mediate cell surface interactions during nervous system development. This protein is a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored neuronal membrane protein that functions as a cell adhesion molecule. It may play a role in the formation of axon connections in the developing nervous system. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	CNTN5 (Contactin 5) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is PRTG.	Contactins mediate cell surface interactions during nervous system development. Has some neurite outgrowth-promoting activity in the cerebral cortical neurons but not in hippocampal neurons. Probably involved in neuronal activity in the auditory system (By similarity).	same
COASY	Coenzyme A (CoA) functions as a carrier of acetyl and acyl groups in cells and thus plays an important role in numerous synthetic and degradative metabolic pathways in all organisms. In eukaryotes, CoA and its derivatives are also involved in membrane trafficking and signal transduction. This gene encodes the bifunctional protein coenzyme A synthase (CoAsy) which carries out the last two steps in the biosynthesis of CoA from pantothenic acid (vitamin B5). The phosphopantetheine adenylyltransferase domain of this bifunctional protein catalyzes the conversion of 4'-phosphopantetheine into dephospho-coenzyme A (dpCoA) while its dephospho-CoA kinase domain completes the final step by phosphorylating dpCoA to form CoA. Mutations in this gene are associated with neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation (NBIA). Alternative splicing results in multiple isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2014]	COASY (CoA Synthase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COASY include neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation 6 and coasy protein-associated neurodegeneration. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include dephospho-CoA kinase activity and pantetheine-phosphate adenylyltransferase activity.	Bifunctional enzyme that catalyzes the fourth and fifth sequential steps of CoA biosynthetic pathway. The fourth reaction is catalyzed by the phosphopantetheine adenylyltransferase, coded by the coaD domain; the fifth reaction is catalyzed by the dephospho-CoA kinase, coded by the coaE domain. May act as a point of CoA biosynthesis regulation.	same
CNOT10	empty	CNOT10 (CCR4-NOT Transcription Complex, Subunit 10) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and Deadenylation-dependent mRNA decay.	Component of the CCR4-NOT complex which is one of the major cellular mRNA deadenylases and is linked to various cellular processes including bulk mRNA degradation, miRNA-mediated repression, translational repression during translational initiation and general transcription regulation. Additional complex functions may be a consequence of its influence on mRNA expression. Is not required for association of CNOT7 to the CCR4-NOT complex.	same
CNTNAP5	This gene product belongs to the neurexin family, members of which function in the vertebrate nervous system as cell adhesion molecules and receptors. This protein, like other neurexin proteins, contains epidermal growth factor repeats and laminin G domains. In addition, it includes an F5/8 type C domain, discoidin/neuropilin- and fibrinogen-like domains, and thrombospondin N-terminal-like domains. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CNTNAP5 (Contactin Associated Protein-Like 5) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CNTNAP1.	May play a role in the correct development and proper functioning of the peripheral and central nervous system and be involved in cell adhesion and intercellular communication	same
COBRA1	NELFB is a subunit of negative elongation factor (NELF), which also includes NELFA (WHSC2; MIM 606026), either NELFC or NELFD (TH1L; MIM 605297), and NELFE (RDBP; MIM 154040). NELF acts with DRB sensitivity-inducing factor (DSIF), a heterodimer of SPT4 (SUPT4H1; MIM 603555) and SPT5 (SUPT5H; MIM 602102), to cause transcriptional pausing of RNA polymerase II (see MIM 180660) (Narita et al., 2003 [PubMed 12612062]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	NELFB (Negative Elongation Factor Complex Member B) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Disease and Gene Expression.	Essential component of the NELF complex, a complex that negatively regulates the elongation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. The NELF complex, which acts via an association with the DSIF complex and causes transcriptional pausing, is counteracted by the P-TEFb kinase complex. May be able to induce chromatin unfolding.	diff
COG2	This gene encodes a subunit of the conserved oligomeric Golgi complex that is required for maintaining normal structure and activity of the Golgi complex. The encoded protein specifically interacts with the USO1 vesicle docking protein and may be necessary for normal Golgi ribbon formation and trafficking of Golgi enzymes. Mutations of this gene are associated with abnormal glycosylation within the Golgi apparatus. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]	COG2 (Component Of Oligomeric Golgi Complex 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COG2 include carotid artery thrombosis and hyperlipoproteinemia type iii. GO annotations related to this gene include protein transporter activity.	Required for normal Golgi morphology and function	same
COG1	The protein encoded by this gene is one of eight proteins (Cog1-8) which form a Golgi-localized complex (COG) required for normal Golgi morphology and function. It is thought that this protein is required for steps in the normal medial and trans Golgi-associated processing of glycoconjugates and plays a role in the organization of the Golgi-localized complex. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COG1 (Component Of Oligomeric Golgi Complex 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COG1 include congenital disorder of glycosylation, type iig and cerebrocostomandibular-like syndrome.	Required for normal Golgi function.	same
CNTNAP4	This gene product belongs to the neurexin family, members of which function in the vertebrate nervous system as cell adhesion molecules and receptors. This protein, like other neurexin proteins, contains epidermal growth factor repeats and laminin G domains. In addition, it includes an F5/8 type C domain, discoidin/neuropilin- and fibrinogen-like domains, and thrombospondin N-terminal-like domains. Alternative splicing results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CNTNAP4 (Contactin Associated Protein-Like 4) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CNTNAP1.	Presynaptic protein involved in both dopaminergic synaptic transmission and GABAergic system, thereby participating in the structural maturation of inhibitory interneuron synapses. Involved in the dopaminergic synaptic transmission by attenuating dopamine release through a presynaptic mechanism. Also participates in the GABAergic system (By similarity).	same
COG5	The protein encoded by this gene is one of eight proteins (Cog1-8) which form a Golgi-localized complex (COG) required for normal Golgi morphology and function. The encoded protein is organized with conserved oligomeric Golgi complex components 6, 7 and 8 into a sub-complex referred to as lobe B. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Mutations in this gene result in congenital disorder of glycosylation type 2I.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]	COG5 (Component Of Oligomeric Golgi Complex 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COG5 include congenital disorder of glycosylation, type iii.	Required for normal Golgi function.	same
COG4	The protein encoded by this gene is a component of an oligomeric protein complex involved in the structure and function of the Golgi apparatus. Defects in this gene may be a cause of congenital disorder of glycosylation type IIj. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]	COG4 (Component Of Oligomeric Golgi Complex 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COG4 include congenital disorder of glycosylation, type iij and oculocerebrorenal syndrome.	Required for normal Golgi function. Plays a role in SNARE-pin assembly and Golgi-to-ER retrograde transport via its interaction with SCFD1.	same
CNTNAP1	The gene product was initially identified as a 190-kD protein associated with the contactin-PTPRZ1 complex. The 1,384-amino acid protein, also designated p190 or CASPR for 'contactin-associated protein,' includes an extracellular domain with several putative protein-protein interaction domains, a putative transmembrane domain, and a 74-amino acid cytoplasmic domain. Northern blot analysis showed that the gene is transcribed predominantly in brain as a transcript of 6.2 kb, with weak expression in several other tissues tested. The architecture of its extracellular domain is similar to that of neurexins, and this protein may be the signaling subunit of contactin, enabling recruitment and activation of intracellular signaling pathways in neurons. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]	CNTNAP1 (Contactin Associated Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CNTNAP1 include hypomyelination neuropathy - arthrogryposis. Among its related pathways are L1CAM interactions and L1CAM interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor activity and SH3/SH2 adaptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CNTNAP3.	Seems to play a role in the formation of functional distinct domains critical for saltatory conduction of nerve impulses in myelinated nerve fibers. Seems to demarcate the paranodal region of the axo-glial junction. In association with contactin may have a role in the signaling between axons and myelinating glial cells	same
COG7	The protein encoded by this gene resides in the golgi, and constitutes one of the 8 subunits of the conserved oligomeric Golgi (COG) complex, which is required for normal golgi morphology and localization. Mutations in this gene are associated with the congenital disorder of glycosylation type IIe.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	COG7 (Component Of Oligomeric Golgi Complex 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COG7 include congenital disorder of glycosylation, type ii.	Required for normal Golgi function.	same
COBL	empty	COBL (Cordon-Bleu WH2 Repeat Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include actin monomer binding. An important paralog of this gene is COBLL1.	Plays an important role in the reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton. Regulates neuron morphogenesis and increases branching of axons and dendrites. Regulates dendrite branching in Purkinje cells (By similarity). Binds to and sequesters actin monomers (G actin). Nucleates actin polymerization by assembling three actin monomers in cross-filament orientation and thereby promotes growth of actin filaments at the barbed end. Can also mediate actin depolymerization at barbed ends and severing of actin filaments. Promotes formation of cell ruffles.	same
COL12A1	This gene encodes the alpha chain of type XII collagen, a member of the FACIT (fibril-associated collagens with interrupted triple helices) collagen family. Type XII collagen is a homotrimer found in association with type I collagen, an association that is thought to modify the interactions between collagen I fibrils and the surrounding matrix. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COL12A1 (Collagen, Type XII, Alpha 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COL12A1 include bethlem myopathy and ullrich congenital muscular dystrophy. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include extracellular matrix structural constituent conferring tensile strength. An important paralog of this gene is MATN1.	Type XII collagen interacts with type I collagen-containing fibrils, the COL1 domain could be associated with the surface of the fibrils, and the COL2 and NC3 domains may be localized in the perifibrillar matrix.	same
COL15A1	This gene encodes the alpha chain of type XV collagen, a member of the FACIT collagen family (fibril-associated collagens with interrupted helices). Type XV collagen has a wide tissue distribution but the strongest expression is localized to basement membrane zones so it may function to adhere basement membranes to underlying connective tissue stroma. The proteolytically produced C-terminal fragment of type XV collagen is restin, a potentially antiangiogenic protein that is closely related to endostatin. Mouse studies have shown that collagen XV deficiency is associated with muscle and microvessel deterioration. [provided by RefSeq, May 2013]	COL15A1 (Collagen, Type XV, Alpha 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include extracellular matrix structural constituent. An important paralog of this gene is COL18A1.	Structural protein that stabilizes microvessels and muscle cells, both in heart and in skeletal muscle.	same
COIL	The protein encoded by this gene is an integral component of Cajal bodies (also called coiled bodies). Cajal bodies are nuclear suborganelles of varying number and composition that are involved in the post-transcriptional modification of small nuclear and small nucleolar RNAs. The N-terminus of the coilin protein directs its self-oligomerization while the C-terminus influences the number of nuclear bodies assembled per cell. Differential methylation and phosphorylation of coilin likely influences its localization among nuclear bodies and the composition and assembly of Cajal bodies. This gene has pseudogenes on chromosome 4 and chromosome 14. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COIL (Coilin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COIL include ischemic neuropathy and differentiating neuroblastoma. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and disulfide oxidoreductase activity.	Component of nuclear coiled bodies, also known as Cajal bodies or CBs, which are involved in the modification and assembly of nucleoplasmic snRNPs.	same
COCH	The protein encoded by this gene is highly conserved in human, mouse, and chicken, showing 94% and 79% amino acid identity of human to mouse and chicken sequences, respectively. Hybridization to this gene was detected in spindle-shaped cells located along nerve fibers between the auditory ganglion and sensory epithelium. These cells accompany neurites at the habenula perforata, the opening through which neurites extend to innervate hair cells. This and the pattern of expression of this gene in chicken inner ear paralleled the histologic findings of acidophilic deposits, consistent with mucopolysaccharide ground substance, in temporal bones from DFNA9 (autosomal dominant nonsyndromic sensorineural deafness 9) patients. Mutations that cause DFNA9 have been reported in this gene. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein. Additional splice variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described but their biological validities have not been demonstrated. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]	COCH (Cochlin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COCH include deafness, autosomal dominant 9 and dfna 9 nonsyndromic hearing loss and deafness. An important paralog of this gene is MATN1.	Plays a role in the control of cell shape and motility in the trabecular meshwork.	same
COL11A1	This gene encodes one of the two alpha chains of type XI collagen, a minor fibrillar collagen. Type XI collagen is a heterotrimer but the third alpha chain is a post-translationally modified alpha 1 type II chain. Mutations in this gene are associated with type II Stickler syndrome and with Marshall syndrome. A single-nucleotide polymorphism in this gene is also associated with susceptibility to lumbar disc herniation. Multiple transcript variants have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]	COL11A1 (Collagen, Type XI, Alpha 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COL11A1 include stickler syndrome, type ii and marshall syndrome. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include extracellular matrix structural constituent and extracellular matrix binding. An important paralog of this gene is COL3A1.	May play an important role in fibrillogenesis by controlling lateral growth of collagen II fibrils	same
COL10A1	This gene encodes the alpha chain of type X collagen, a short chain collagen expressed by hypertrophic chondrocytes during endochondral ossification. Unlike type VIII collagen, the other short chain collagen, type X collagen is a homotrimer. Mutations in this gene are associated with Schmid type metaphyseal chondrodysplasia (SMCD) and Japanese type spondylometaphyseal dysplasia (SMD). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COL10A1 (Collagen, Type X, Alpha 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COL10A1 include metaphyseal chondrodysplasia, schmid type and cartilage disease. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and ERK Signaling. An important paralog of this gene is COL8A1.	Type X collagen is a product of hypertrophic chondrocytes and has been localized to presumptive mineralization zones of hyaline cartilage	same
COBLL1	empty	COBLL1 (Cordon-Bleu WH2 Repeat Protein-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding. An important paralog of this gene is COBL.	empty	same
COG3	This gene encodes a component of the conserved oligomeric Golgi (COG) complex which is composed of eight different subunits and is required for normal Golgi morphology and localization. Defects in the COG complex result in multiple deficiencies in protein glycosylation. The protein encoded by this gene is involved in ER-Golgi transport.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]	COG3 (Component Of Oligomeric Golgi Complex 3) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein transporter activity.	Involved in ER-Golgi transport.	same
COL14A1	This gene encodes the alpha chain of type XIV collagen, a member of the FACIT (fibril-associated collagens with interrupted triple helices) collagen family. Type XIV collagen interacts with the fibril surface and is involved in the regulation of fibrillogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]	COL14A1 (Collagen, Type XIV, Alpha 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COL14A1 include keratoderma, palmoplantar, punctate type ia and odontogenic myxoma. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include extracellular matrix structural constituent and collagen binding. An important paralog of this gene is MATN1.	Plays an adhesive role by integrating collagen bundles. It is probably associated with the surface of interstitial collagen fibrils via COL1. The COL2 domain may then serve as a rigid arm which sticks out from the fibril and protrudes the large N-terminal globular domain into the extracellular space, where it might interact with other matrix molecules or cell surface receptors (By similarity).	same
COL19A1	This gene encodes the alpha chain of type XIX collagen, a member of the FACIT collagen family (fibril-associated collagens with interrupted helices). Although the function of this collagen is not known, other members of this collagen family are found in association with fibril-forming collagens such as type I and II, and serve to maintain the integrity of the extracellular matrix. The transcript produced from this gene has an unusually large 3' UTR which has not been completely sequenced. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COL19A1 (Collagen, Type XIX, Alpha 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include extracellular matrix structural constituent and protein binding, bridging. An important paralog of this gene is COL21A1.	May act as a cross-bridge between fibrils and other extracellular matrix molecules. Involved in skeletal myogenesis in the developing esophagus. May play a role in organization of the pericellular matrix or the sphinteric smooth muscle.	same
COL17A1	This gene encodes the alpha chain of type XVII collagen. Unlike most collagens, collagen XVII is a transmembrane protein. Collagen XVII is a structural component of hemidesmosomes, multiprotein complexes at the dermal-epidermal basement membrane zone that mediate adhesion of keratinocytes to the underlying membrane. Mutations in this gene are associated with both generalized atrophic benign and junctional epidermolysis bullosa. Two homotrimeric forms of type XVII collagen exist. The full length form is the transmembrane protein. A soluble form, referred to as either ectodomain or LAD-1, is generated by proteolytic processing of the full length form. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COL17A1 (Collagen, Type XVII, Alpha 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COL17A1 include epidermolysis bullosa, junctional, non-herlitz type and col17a1-related junctional epidermolysis bullosa. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and ERK Signaling. An important paralog of this gene is SCARA3.	May play a role in the integrity of hemidesmosome and the attachment of basal keratinocytes to the underlying basement membrane	same
COG8	This gene encodes a protein that is a component of the conserved oligomeric Golgi (COG) complex, a multiprotein complex that plays a structural role in the Golgi apparatus, and is involved in intracellular membrane trafficking and glycoprotein modification. Mutations in this gene cause congenital disorder of glycosylation, type IIh, a disease that is characterized by under-glycosylated serum proteins, and whose symptoms include severe psychomotor retardation, failure to thrive, seizures, and dairy and wheat product intolerance. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COG8 (Component Of Oligomeric Golgi Complex 8) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COG8 include congenital disorder of glycosylation, type iih. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000272617.	Required for normal Golgi function.	same
COG6	This gene encodes a subunit of the conserved oligomeric Golgi complex that is required for maintaining normal structure and activity of the Golgi apparatus. The encoded protein is organized with conserved oligomeric Golgi complex components 5, 7 and 8 into a sub-complex referred to as lobe B. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]	COG6 (Component Of Oligomeric Golgi Complex 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COG6 include shaheen syndrome and hypohidrosis-enamel hypoplasia-palmoplantar keratoderma-intellectual disability syndrome.	Required for normal Golgi function.	same
COL20A1	empty	COL20A1 (Collagen, Type XX, Alpha 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and ERK Signaling. An important paralog of this gene is MATN1.	Probable collagen protein	same
COL11A2	This gene encodes one of the two alpha chains of type XI collagen, a minor fibrillar collagen. It is located on chromosome 6 very close to but separate from the gene for retinoid X receptor beta. Type XI collagen is a heterotrimer but the third alpha chain is a post-translationally modified alpha 1 type II chain. Proteolytic processing of this type XI chain produces PARP, a proline/arginine-rich protein that is an amino terminal domain. Mutations in this gene are associated with type III Stickler syndrome, otospondylomegaepiphyseal dysplasia (OSMED syndrome), Weissenbacher-Zweymuller syndrome, autosomal dominant non-syndromic sensorineural type 13 deafness (DFNA13), and autosomal recessive non-syndromic sensorineural type 53 deafness (DFNB53). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A related pseudogene is located nearby on chromosome 6. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009]	COL11A2 (Collagen, Type XI, Alpha 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COL11A2 include stickler syndrome, type iii and otospondylomegaepiphyseal dysplasia. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include protein binding, bridging and extracellular matrix structural constituent conferring tensile strength. An important paralog of this gene is COL3A1.	May play an important role in fibrillogenesis by controlling lateral growth of collagen II fibrils	same
COL24A1	empty	COL24A1 (Collagen, Type XXIV, Alpha 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include extracellular matrix structural constituent. An important paralog of this gene is COL3A1.	May participate in regulating type I collagen fibrillogenesis at specific anatomical locations during fetal development.	same
COL1A2	This gene encodes the pro-alpha2 chain of type I collagen whose triple helix comprises two alpha1 chains and one alpha2 chain. Type I is a fibril-forming collagen found in most connective tissues and is abundant in bone, cornea, dermis and tendon. Mutations in this gene are associated with osteogenesis imperfecta types I-IV, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type VIIB, recessive Ehlers-Danlos syndrome Classical type, idiopathic osteoporosis, and atypical Marfan syndrome. Symptoms associated with mutations in this gene, however, tend to be less severe than mutations in the gene for the alpha1 chain of type I collagen (COL1A1) reflecting the different role of alpha2 chains in matrix integrity. Three transcripts, resulting from the use of alternate polyadenylation signals, have been identified for this gene. [provided by R. Dalgleish, Feb 2008]	COL1A2 (Collagen, Type I, Alpha 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COL1A2 include osteogenesis imperfecta, type iv and osteogenesis imperfecta, type iii. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and protein binding, bridging. An important paralog of this gene is COL3A1.	Type I collagen is a member of group I collagen (fibrillar forming collagen)	same
COL23A1	COL23A1 is a member of the transmembrane collagens, a subfamily of the nonfibrillar collagens that contain a single pass hydrophobic transmembrane domain (Banyard et al., 2003 [PubMed 12644459]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	COL23A1 (Collagen, Type XXIII, Alpha 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and ERK Signaling. An important paralog of this gene is COL21A1.	empty	same
COL28A1	COL28A1 belongs to a class of collagens containing von Willebrand factor (VWF; MIM 613160) type A (VWFA) domains (Veit et al., 2006 [PubMed 16330543]).[supplied by OMIM, Nov 2010]	COL28A1 (Collagen, Type XXVIII, Alpha 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Degradation of the extracellular matrix and Collagen biosynthesis and modifying enzymes. GO annotations related to this gene include serine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is SCARA3.	May act as a cell-binding protein	same
COL21A1	This gene encodes the alpha chain of type XXI collagen, a member of the FACIT collagen family (fibril-associated collagens with interrupted helices). Type XXI collagen is localized to tissues containing type I collagen so, like other members of this collagen family, it may serve to maintain the integrity of the extracellular matrix. An alternatively spliced transcript variant has been described, but its full-length nature has yet to be determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COL21A1 (Collagen, Type XXI, Alpha 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Proteoglycans in cancer and ERK Signaling. An important paralog of this gene is COL25A1.	empty	same
COL29A1	This gene encodes a member of the collagen superfamily of proteins. The encoded protein contains multiple von Willebrand factor A-like domains and may interact with the alpha 1 and alpha 2 chains of collagen VI to form the complete collagen VI trimer. Polymorphisms in this gene may be linked to dermal phenotypes, such as eczema. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2013]	COL6A5 (Collagen, Type VI, Alpha 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COL6A5 include bethlem myopathy and ullrich congenital muscular dystrophy. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by GPCR. An important paralog of this gene is SCARA3.	Collagen VI acts as a cell-binding protein.	diff
COL22A1	COL22A1, a member of the FACIT (fibrillar-associated collagens with interrupted triple helices) subgroup of the collagen protein family, specifically localizes to tissue junctions (Koch et al., 2004 [PubMed 15016833]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	COL22A1 (Collagen, Type XXII, Alpha 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and ERK Signaling. An important paralog of this gene is COL21A1.	Acts as a cell adhesion ligand for skin epithelial cells and fibroblasts	same
COL2A1	This gene encodes the alpha-1 chain of type II collagen, a fibrillar collagen found in cartilage and the vitreous humor of the eye. Mutations in this gene are associated with achondrogenesis, chondrodysplasia, early onset familial osteoarthritis, SED congenita, Langer-Saldino achondrogenesis, Kniest dysplasia, Stickler syndrome type I, and spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia Strudwick type. In addition, defects in processing chondrocalcin, a calcium binding protein that is the C-propeptide of this collagen molecule, are also associated with chondrodysplasia. There are two transcripts identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COL2A1 (Collagen, Type II, Alpha 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COL2A1 include stickler syndrome, type i and kniest dysplasia. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and extracellular matrix structural constituent conferring tensile strength. An important paralog of this gene is COL3A1.	Type II collagen is specific for cartilaginous tissues. It is essential for the normal embryonic development of the skeleton, for linear growth and for the ability of cartilage to resist compressive forces	same
COL16A1	This gene encodes the alpha chain of type XVI collagen, a member of the FACIT collagen family (fibril-associated collagens with interrupted helices). Members of this collagen family are found in association with fibril-forming collagens such as type I and II, and serve to maintain the integrity of the extracellular matrix. High levels of type XVI collagen have been found in fibroblasts and keratinocytes, and in smooth muscle and amnion. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COL16A1 (Collagen, Type XVI, Alpha 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include integrin binding. An important paralog of this gene is COL21A1.	Involved in mediating cell attachment and inducing integrin-mediated cellular reactions, such as cell spreading and alterations in cell morphology.	same
COL4A1	This gene encodes a type IV collagen alpha protein. Type IV collagen proteins are integral components of basement membranes. This gene shares a bidirectional promoter with a paralogous gene on the opposite strand. The protein consists of an amino-terminal 7S domain, a triple-helix forming collagenous domain, and a carboxy-terminal non-collagenous domain. It functions as part of a heterotrimer and interacts with other extracellular matrix components such as perlecans, proteoglycans, and laminins. In addition, proteolytic cleavage of the non-collagenous carboxy-terminal domain results in a biologically active fragment known as arresten, which has anti-angiogenic and tumor suppressor properties. Mutations in this gene cause porencephaly, cerebrovascular disease, and renal and muscular defects. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2014]	COL4A1 (Collagen, Type IV, Alpha 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COL4A1 include porencephaly 1 and brain small vessel disease with or without ocular anomalies. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include extracellular matrix structural constituent and platelet-derived growth factor binding. An important paralog of this gene is COL3A1.	Type IV collagen is the major structural component of glomerular basement membranes (GBM), forming a chicken-wire meshwork together with laminins, proteoglycans and entactin/nidogen	same
COL3A1	This gene encodes the pro-alpha1 chains of type III collagen, a fibrillar collagen that is found in extensible connective tissues such as skin, lung, uterus, intestine and the vascular system, frequently in association with type I collagen. Mutations in this gene are associated with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome types IV, and with aortic and arterial aneurysms. Two transcripts, resulting from the use of alternate polyadenylation signals, have been identified for this gene. [provided by R. Dalgleish, Feb 2008]	COL3A1 (Collagen, Type III, Alpha 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COL3A1 include ehlers-danlos syndrome, type iii and ehlers-danlos syndrome, type iv. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include integrin binding and SMAD binding. An important paralog of this gene is COL5A3.	Collagen type III occurs in most soft connective tissues along with type I collagen. Involved in regulation of cortical development. Is the major ligand of GPR56 in the developing brain and binding to GPR56 inhibits neuronal migration and activates the RhoA pathway by coupling GPR56 to GNA13 and possibly GNA12	same
COL18A1	This gene encodes the alpha chain of type XVIII collagen. This collagen is one of the multiplexins, extracellular matrix proteins that contain multiple triple-helix domains (collagenous domains) interrupted by non-collagenous domains. A long isoform of the protein has an N-terminal domain that is homologous to the extracellular part of frizzled receptors. Proteolytic processing at several endogenous cleavage sites in the C-terminal domain results in production of endostatin, a potent antiangiogenic protein that is able to inhibit angiogenesis and tumor growth. Mutations in this gene are associated with Knobloch syndrome. The main features of this syndrome involve retinal abnormalities, so type XVIII collagen may play an important role in retinal structure and in neural tube closure. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2014]	COL18A1 (Collagen, Type XVIII, Alpha 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COL18A1 include knobloch syndrome, type 1 and knobloch syndrome. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and structural molecule activity. An important paralog of this gene is COL15A1.	COLA18A probably plays a major role in determining the retinal structure as well as in the closure of the neural tube	same
COL1A1	This gene encodes the pro-alpha1 chains of type I collagen whose triple helix comprises two alpha1 chains and one alpha2 chain. Type I is a fibril-forming collagen found in most connective tissues and is abundant in bone, cornea, dermis and tendon. Mutations in this gene are associated with osteogenesis imperfecta types I-IV, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type VIIA, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome Classical type, Caffey Disease and idiopathic osteoporosis. Reciprocal translocations between chromosomes 17 and 22, where this gene and the gene for platelet-derived growth factor beta are located, are associated with a particular type of skin tumor called dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans, resulting from unregulated expression of the growth factor. Two transcripts, resulting from the use of alternate polyadenylation signals, have been identified for this gene. [provided by R. Dalgleish, Feb 2008]	COL1A1 (Collagen, Type I, Alpha 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COL1A1 include osteogenesis imperfecta, type i and caffey disease. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and platelet-derived growth factor binding. An important paralog of this gene is COL3A1.	Type I collagen is a member of group I collagen (fibrillar forming collagen)	same
COL4A6	This gene encodes one of the six subunits of type IV collagen, the major structural component of basement membranes. Like the other members of the type IV collagen gene family, this gene is organized in a head-to-head conformation with another type IV collagen gene, alpha 5 type IV collagen, so that the gene pair shares a common promoter. Deletions in the alpha 5 gene that extend into the alpha 6 gene result in diffuse leiomyomatosis accompanying the X-linked Alport syndrome caused by the deletion in the alpha 5 gene. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2013]	COL4A6 (Collagen, Type IV, Alpha 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COL4A6 include deafness, x-linked 6 and x-linked non-syndromic sensorineural deafness type dfn. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Pathways in cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include extracellular matrix structural constituent. An important paralog of this gene is COL3A1.	Type IV collagen is the major structural component of glomerular basement membranes (GBM), forming a chicken-wire meshwork together with laminins, proteoglycans and entactin/nidogen	same
COL5A1	This gene encodes an alpha chain for one of the low abundance fibrillar collagens. Fibrillar collagen molecules are trimers that can be composed of one or more types of alpha chains. Type V collagen is found in tissues containing type I collagen and appears to regulate the assembly of heterotypic fibers composed of both type I and type V collagen. This gene product is closely related to type XI collagen and it is possible that the collagen chains of types V and XI constitute a single collagen type with tissue-specific chain combinations. The encoded procollagen protein occurs commonly as the heterotrimer pro-alpha1(V)-pro-alpha1(V)-pro-alpha2(V). Mutations in this gene are associated with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, types I and II. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2013]	COL5A1 (Collagen, Type V, Alpha 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COL5A1 include ehlers-danlos syndrome, type ii and ehlers-danlos syndrome, classic type, col5a1-related. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include heparin binding and extracellular matrix structural constituent. An important paralog of this gene is COL3A1.	Type V collagen is a member of group I collagen (fibrillar forming collagen). It is a minor connective tissue component of nearly ubiquitous distribution. Type V collagen binds to DNA, heparan sulfate, thrombospondin, heparin, and insulin	same
COL4A5	This gene encodes one of the six subunits of type IV collagen, the major structural component of basement membranes. Mutations in this gene are associated with X-linked Alport syndrome, also known as hereditary nephritis. Like the other members of the type IV collagen gene family, this gene is organized in a head-to-head conformation with another type IV collagen gene so that each gene pair shares a common promoter. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]	COL4A5 (Collagen, Type IV, Alpha 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COL4A5 include alport syndrome and alport syndrome and thin basement membrane nephropathy. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include extracellular matrix structural constituent. An important paralog of this gene is COL3A1.	Type IV collagen is the major structural component of glomerular basement membranes (GBM), forming a chicken-wire meshwork together with laminins, proteoglycans and entactin/nidogen	same
COL5A2	This gene encodes an alpha chain for one of the low abundance fibrillar collagens. Fibrillar collagen molecules are trimers that can be composed of one or more types of alpha chains. Type V collagen is found in tissues containing type I collagen and appears to regulate the assembly of heterotypic fibers composed of both type I and type V collagen. This gene product is closely related to type XI collagen and it is possible that the collagen chains of types V and XI constitute a single collagen type with tissue-specific chain combinations. Mutations in this gene are associated with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, types I and II. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COL5A2 (Collagen, Type V, Alpha 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COL5A2 include ehlers-danlos syndrome, type i and ehlers-danlos syndrome, classic type, col5a2-related. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include extracellular matrix structural constituent and SMAD binding. An important paralog of this gene is COL3A1.	Type V collagen is a member of group I collagen (fibrillar forming collagen). It is a minor connective tissue component of nearly ubiquitous distribution. Type V collagen binds to DNA, heparan sulfate, thrombospondin, heparin, and insulin. Type V collagen is a key determinant in the assembly of tissue-specific matrices (By similarity).	same
COL25A1	This gene encodes a brain-specific membrane associated collagen. A product of proteolytic processing of the encoded protein, CLAC (collagenous Alzheimer amyloid plaque component), binds to amyloid beta-peptides found in Alzheimer amyloid plaques but CLAC inhibits rather than facilitates amyloid fibril elongation (PMID: 16300410). A study of over-expression of this collagen in mice, however, found changes in pathology and behavior suggesting that the encoded protein may promote amyloid plaque formation (PMID: 19548013). Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	COL25A1 (Collagen, Type XXV, Alpha 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COL25A1 include fibrosis of extraocular muscles, congenital, 5 and antisocial personality disorder. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include heparin binding and beta-amyloid binding. An important paralog of this gene is COL21A1.	Inhibits fibrillization of beta amyloid peptide during the elongation phase. Has also been shown to assemble amyloid fibrils into protease-resistant aggregates. Binds heparin.	same
COL4A4	This gene encodes one of the six subunits of type IV collagen, the major structural component of basement membranes. This particular collagen IV subunit, however, is only found in a subset of basement membranes. Like the other members of the type IV collagen gene family, this gene is organized in a head-to-head conformation with another type IV collagen gene so that each gene pair shares a common promoter. Mutations in this gene are associated with type II autosomal recessive Alport syndrome (hereditary glomerulonephropathy) and with familial benign hematuria (thin basement membrane disease). Two transcripts, differing only in their transcription start sites, have been identified for this gene and, as is common for collagen genes, multiple polyadenylation sites are found in the 3' UTR. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COL4A4 (Collagen, Type IV, Alpha 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COL4A4 include col4a4-related nephropathy and alport syndrome, autosomal recessive. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include extracellular matrix structural constituent. An important paralog of this gene is COL3A1.	Type IV collagen is the major structural component of glomerular basement membranes (GBM), forming a chicken-wire meshwork together with laminins, proteoglycans and entactin/nidogen	same
COL27A1	This gene encodes a member of the fibrillar collagen family, and plays a role during the calcification of cartilage and the transition of cartilage to bone. The encoded protein product is a preproprotein. It includes an N-terminal signal peptide, which is followed by an N-terminal propetide, mature peptide and a C-terminal propeptide. The N-terminal propeptide contains thrombospondin N-terminal-like and laminin G-like domains. The mature peptide is a major triple-helical region. The C-terminal propeptide, also known as COLFI domain, plays crucial roles in tissue growth and repair. Mutations in this gene cause Steel syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found, but the full-length nature of some variants has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	COL27A1 (Collagen, Type XXVII, Alpha 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COL27A1 include steel syndrome. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include extracellular matrix structural constituent. An important paralog of this gene is COL3A1.	Plays a role during the calcification of cartilage and the transition of cartilage to bone.	same
COL6A3	This gene encodes the alpha-3 chain, one of the three alpha chains of type VI collagen, a beaded filament collagen found in most connective tissues. The alpha-3 chain of type VI collagen is much larger than the alpha-1 and -2 chains. This difference in size is largely due to an increase in the number of subdomains, similar to von Willebrand Factor type A domains, that are found in the amino terminal globular domain of all the alpha chains. These domains have been shown to bind extracellular matrix proteins, an interaction that explains the importance of this collagen in organizing matrix components. Mutations in the type VI collagen genes are associated with Bethlem myopathy, a rare autosomal dominant proximal myopathy with early childhood onset. Mutations in this gene are also a cause of Ullrich congenital muscular dystrophy, also referred to as Ullrich scleroatonic muscular dystrophy, an autosomal recessive congenital myopathy that is more severe than Bethlem myopathy. Multiple transcript variants have been identified, but the full-length nature of only some of these variants has been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]	COL6A3 (Collagen, Type VI, Alpha 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COL6A3 include bethlem myopathy and ullrich congenital muscular dystrophy. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include serine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is SCARA3.	Collagen VI acts as a cell-binding protein	same
COL13A1	This gene encodes the alpha chain of one of the nonfibrillar collagens. The function of this gene product is not known, however, it has been detected at low levels in all connective tissue-producing cells so it may serve a general function in connective tissues. Unlike most of the collagens, which are secreted into the extracellular matrix, collagen XIII contains a transmembrane domain and the protein has been localized to the plasma membrane. The transcripts for this gene undergo complex and extensive splicing involving at least eight exons. Like other collagens, collagen XIII is a trimer; it is not known whether this trimer is composed of one or more than one alpha chain isomer. A number of alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described, but the full length nature of some of them has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COL13A1 (Collagen, Type XIII, Alpha 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include heparin binding and extracellular matrix structural constituent. An important paralog of this gene is COL21A1.	Involved in cell-matrix and cell-cell adhesion interactions that are required for normal development. May participate in the linkage between muscle fiber and basement membrane. May play a role in endochondral ossification of bone and branching morphogenesis of lung. Binds heparin.	same
COL5A3	This gene encodes an alpha chain for one of the low abundance fibrillar collagens. Fibrillar collagen molecules are trimers that can be composed of one or more types of alpha chains. Type V collagen is found in tissues containing type I collagen and appears to regulate the assembly of heterotypic fibers composed of both type I and type V collagen. This gene product is closely related to type XI collagen and it is possible that the collagen chains of types V and XI constitute a single collagen type with tissue-specific chain combinations. Mutations in this gene are thought to be responsible for the symptoms of a subset of patients with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type III. Messages of several sizes can be detected in northern blots but sequence information cannot confirm the identity of the shorter messages. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COL5A3 (Collagen, Type V, Alpha 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COL5A3 include arterial tortuosity syndrome and pulmonary valve stenosis. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include heparin binding and collagen binding. An important paralog of this gene is COL3A1.	Type V collagen is a member of group I collagen (fibrillar forming collagen). It is a minor connective tissue component of nearly ubiquitous distribution. Type V collagen binds to DNA, heparan sulfate, thrombospondin, heparin, and insulin	same
COL6A4P2	This transcribed pseudogene represents the 3' end of a presumed ortholog to a mouse gene which encodes a collagen VI alpha 4 chain protein (GeneID 68553). The predicted ORF contains multiple premature stop codons. A large chromosome break separates this pseudogene from the 5' end of the presumed ortholog (DVWA, GeneID 344875) which is located upstream at chromosome 3p24.3. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]	COL6A4P2 (Collagen, Type VI, Alpha 4 Pseudogene 2) is a Pseudogene.	empty	same
COL8A2	This gene encodes the alpha 2 chain of type VIII collagen. This protein is a major component of the basement membrane of the corneal endothelium and forms homo- or heterotrimers with alpha 1 (VIII) type collagens. Defects in this gene are associated with Fuchs endothelial corneal dystrophy and posterior polymorphous corneal dystrophy type 2. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2014]	COL8A2 (Collagen, Type VIII, Alpha 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COL8A2 include corneal dystrophy, fuchs endothelial, 1 and corneal dystrophy, posterior polymorphous 2. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include extracellular matrix structural constituent and protein binding, bridging. An important paralog of this gene is COL8A1.	Macromolecular component of the subendothelium. Major component of the Descemets membrane (basement membrane) of corneal endothelial cells. Also component of the endothelia of blood vessels. Necessary for migration and proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells and thus, has a potential role in the maintenance of vessel wall integrity and structure, in particular in atherogenesis (By similarity).	same
COL8A1	This gene encodes one of the two alpha chains of type VIII collagen. The gene product is a short chain collagen and a major component of the basement membrane of the corneal endothelium. The type VIII collagen fibril can be either a homo- or a heterotrimer. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been observed. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	COL8A1 (Collagen, Type VIII, Alpha 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COL8A1 include fuchs' endothelial dystrophy. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and ERK Signaling. An important paralog of this gene is OTOL1.	Macromolecular component of the subendothelium. Major component of the Descemets membrane (basement membrane) of corneal endothelial cells. Also component of the endothelia of blood vessels. Necessary for migration and proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells and thus, has a potential role in the maintenance of vessel wall integrity and structure, in particular in atherogenesis.	same
COL4A2	This gene encodes one of the six subunits of type IV collagen, the major structural component of basement membranes. The C-terminal portion of the protein, known as canstatin, is an inhibitor of angiogenesis and tumor growth. Like the other members of the type IV collagen gene family, this gene is organized in a head-to-head conformation with another type IV collagen gene so that each gene pair shares a common promoter. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COL4A2 (Collagen, Type IV, Alpha 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COL4A2 include porencephaly 2 and familial porencephaly. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include extracellular matrix structural constituent. An important paralog of this gene is COL3A1.	Type IV collagen is the major structural component of glomerular basement membranes (GBM), forming a chicken-wire meshwork together with laminins, proteoglycans and entactin/nidogen	same
COL7A1	This gene encodes the alpha chain of type VII collagen. The type VII collagen fibril, composed of three identical alpha collagen chains, is restricted to the basement zone beneath stratified squamous epithelia. It functions as an anchoring fibril between the external epithelia and the underlying stroma. Mutations in this gene are associated with all forms of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa. In the absence of mutations, however, an acquired form of this disease can result from an autoimmune response made to type VII collagen. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COL7A1 (Collagen, Type VII, Alpha 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COL7A1 include epidermolysis bullosa pruriginosa and epidermolysis bullosa dystrophica, ad. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include serine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is COL3A1.	Stratified squamous epithelial basement membrane protein that forms anchoring fibrils which may contribute to epithelial basement membrane organization and adherence by interacting with extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins such as type IV collagen	same
COL9A1	This gene encodes one of the three alpha chains of type IX collagen, which is a minor (5-20%) collagen component of hyaline cartilage. Type IX collagen is usually found in tissues containing type II collagen, a fibrillar collagen. Studies in knockout mice have shown that synthesis of the alpha 1 chain is essential for assembly of type IX collagen molecules, a heterotrimeric molecule, and that lack of type IX collagen is associated with early onset osteoarthritis. Mutations in this gene are associated with osteoarthritis in humans, with multiple epiphyseal dysplasia, 6, a form of chondrodysplasia, and with Stickler syndrome, a disease characterized by ophthalmic, orofacial, articular, and auditory defects. Two transcript variants that encode different isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COL9A1 (Collagen, Type IX, Alpha 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COL9A1 include epiphyseal dysplasia, multiple, 6 and stickler syndrome, type iv. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include extracellular matrix structural constituent conferring tensile strength. An important paralog of this gene is COL21A1.	Structural component of hyaline cartilage and vitreous of the eye	same
COL4A3BP	This gene encodes a kinase that specifically phosphorylates the N-terminal region of the non-collagenous domain of the alpha 3 chain of type IV collagen, known as the Goodpasture antigen. Goodpasture disease is the result of an autoimmune response directed at this antigen. One isoform of this protein is also involved in ceramide intracellular transport. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COL4A3BP (Collagen, Type IV, Alpha 3 (Goodpasture Antigen) Binding Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COL4A3BP include goodpasture syndrome and alport syndrome. Among its related pathways are Sphingolipid metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase activity and ceramide binding. An important paralog of this gene is PLEKHA3.	Shelters ceramides and diacylglycerol lipids inside its START domain and mediates the intracellular trafficking of ceramides and diacylglycerol lipids in a non-vesicular manner.	same
COLEC10	This gene encodes a member of the C-lectin family, proteins that possess collagen-like sequences and carbohydrate recognition domains. The other members of this family are secreted proteins and bind to carbohydrate antigens on microorganisms facilitating their recognition and removal. This gene product is a cytosolic protein, a characteristic that suggests that it may have different biological functions than other C-lectins. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COLEC10 (Collectin Sub-Family Member 10 (C-Type Lectin)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include mannose binding. An important paralog of this gene is COLEC11.	Lectin that binds to various sugars: galactose > mannose = fucose > N-acetylglucosamine > N-acetylgalactosamine.	same
COL4A3	Type IV collagen, the major structural component of basement membranes, is a multimeric protein composed of 3 alpha subunits. These subunits are encoded by 6 different genes, alpha 1 through alpha 6, each of which can form a triple helix structure with 2 other subunits to form type IV collagen. This gene encodes alpha 3. In the Goodpasture syndrome, autoantibodies bind to the collagen molecules in the basement membranes of alveoli and glomeruli. The epitopes that elicit these autoantibodies are localized largely to the non-collagenous C-terminal domain of the protein. A specific kinase phosphorylates amino acids in this same C-terminal region and the expression of this kinase is upregulated during pathogenesis. This gene is also linked to an autosomal recessive form of Alport syndrome. The mutations contributing to this syndrome are also located within the exons that encode this C-terminal region. Like the other members of the type IV collagen gene family, this gene is organized in a head-to-head conformation with another type IV collagen gene so that each gene pair shares a common promoter. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	COL4A3 (Collagen, Type IV, Alpha 3 (Goodpasture Antigen)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COL4A3 include alport syndrome, autosomal recessive and hematuria, benign familial. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include structural molecule activity and extracellular matrix structural constituent. An important paralog of this gene is COL3A1.	Type IV collagen is the major structural component of glomerular basement membranes (GBM), forming a chicken-wire meshwork together with laminins, proteoglycans and entactin/nidogen	same
COL9A3	This gene encodes one of the three alpha chains of type IX collagen, the major collagen component of hyaline cartilage. Type IX collagen, a heterotrimeric molecule, is usually found in tissues containing type II collagen, a fibrillar collagen. Mutations in this gene are associated with multiple epiphyseal dysplasia type 3. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]	COL9A3 (Collagen, Type IX, Alpha 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COL9A3 include epiphyseal dysplasia, multiple, 3 and col9a3-related multiple epiphyseal dysplasia. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include extracellular matrix structural constituent conferring tensile strength. An important paralog of this gene is COL21A1.	Structural component of hyaline cartilage and vitreous of the eye	same
COLEC11	This gene encodes a member of the collectin family of C-type lectins that possess collagen-like sequences and carbohydrate recognition domains. Collectins are secreted proteins that play important roles in the innate immune system by binding to carbohydrate antigens on microorganisms, facilitating their recognition and removal. The encoded protein binds to multiple sugars with a preference for fucose and mannose. Mutations in this gene are a cause of 3MC syndrome-2. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	COLEC11 (Collectin Sub-Family Member 11) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COLEC11 include 3mc syndrome 2 and carnevale syndrome. Among its related pathways are Legionellosis and mRNA Splicing - Major Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include mannose binding. An important paralog of this gene is MBL2.	Lectin that binds to various sugars including fucose and mannose. Has a higher affinity for fucose compared to mannose. Does not bind to glucose, N-acetylglucosamine and N-acetylgalactosamine. Also binds lipopolysaccharides (LPS). Involved in fundamental development serving as a guidance cue for neural crest cell migration (By similarity).	same
COMMD10	empty	COMMD10 (COMM Domain Containing 10) is a Protein Coding gene.	May modulate activity of cullin-RING E3 ubiquitin ligase (CRL) complexes (PubMed:21778237). May down-regulate activation of NF-kappa-B (PubMed:15799966).	same
COMMD2	empty	COMMD2 (COMM Domain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene.	May modulate activity of cullin-RING E3 ubiquitin ligase (CRL) complexes (PubMed:21778237). May down-regulate activation of NF-kappa-B (PubMed:15799966).	same
COL6A2	This gene encodes one of the three alpha chains of type VI collagen, a beaded filament collagen found in most connective tissues. The product of this gene contains several domains similar to von Willebrand Factor type A domains. These domains have been shown to bind extracellular matrix proteins, an interaction that explains the importance of this collagen in organizing matrix components. Mutations in this gene are associated with Bethlem myopathy and Ullrich scleroatonic muscular dystrophy. Three transcript variants have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COL6A2 (Collagen, Type VI, Alpha 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COL6A2 include myosclerosis, congenital and myosclerosis. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include extracellular matrix structural constituent and protein binding, bridging. An important paralog of this gene is SCARA3.	Collagen VI acts as a cell-binding protein	same
COMMD5	empty	COMMD5 (COMM Domain Containing 5) is a Protein Coding gene.	May modulate activity of cullin-RING E3 ubiquitin ligase (CRL) complexes (PubMed:21778237). Negatively regulates cell proliferation. Negatively regulates cell cycle G2/M phase transition probably by transactivating p21/CDKN1A through the p53/TP53-independent signaling pathway. Involved in kidney proximal tubule morphogenesis (By similarity). Down-regulates activation of NF-kappa-B (PubMed:15799966).	same
COL6A1	The collagens are a superfamily of proteins that play a role in maintaining the integrity of various tissues. Collagens are extracellular matrix proteins and have a triple-helical domain as their common structural element. Collagen VI is a major structural component of microfibrils. The basic structural unit of collagen VI is a heterotrimer of the alpha1(VI), alpha2(VI), and alpha3(VI) chains. The alpha2(VI) and alpha3(VI) chains are encoded by the COL6A2 and COL6A3 genes, respectively. The protein encoded by this gene is the alpha 1 subunit of type VI collagen (alpha1(VI) chain). Mutations in the genes that code for the collagen VI subunits result in the autosomal dominant disorder, Bethlem myopathy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COL6A1 (Collagen, Type VI, Alpha 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COL6A1 include collagen type vi-related disorders and bethlem myopathy. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include platelet-derived growth factor binding. An important paralog of this gene is SCARA3.	Collagen VI acts as a cell-binding protein	same
COMMD6	COMMD6 belongs to a family of NF-kappa-B (see RELA; MIM 164014)-inhibiting proteins characterized by the presence of a COMM domain (see COMMD1; MIM 607238) (de Bie et al., 2006 [PubMed 16573520]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2009]	COMMD6 (COMM Domain Containing 6) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include NF-kappaB binding.	May modulate activity of cullin-RING E3 ubiquitin ligase (CRL) complexes (PubMed:21778237). Down-regulates activation of NF-kappa-B. Inhibits TNF-induced NFKB1 activation.	same
COMMD8	empty	COMMD8 (COMM Domain Containing 8) is a Protein Coding gene.	May modulate activity of cullin-RING E3 ubiquitin ligase (CRL) complexes (PubMed:21778237). May down-regulate activation of NF-kappa-B (PubMed:15799966).	same
COMMD7	empty	COMMD7 (COMM Domain Containing 7) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include NF-kappaB binding.	May modulate activity of cullin-RING E3 ubiquitin ligase (CRL) complexes (PubMed:21778237). Associates with the NF-kappa-B complex and suppresses its transcriptional activity (PubMed:15799966).	same
COMMD9	empty	COMMD9 (COMM Domain Containing 9) is a Protein Coding gene.	May modulate activity of cullin-RING E3 ubiquitin ligase (CRL) complexes (PubMed:21778237). May down-regulate activation of NF-kappa-B (PubMed:15799966). Modulates Na(+) transport in epithelial cells by regulation of apical cell surface expression of amiloride-sensitive sodium channel (ENaC) subunits (PubMed:23637203).	same
COLQ	This gene encodes the subunit of a collagen-like molecule associated with acetylcholinesterase in skeletal muscle. Each molecule is composed of three identical subunits. Each subunit contains a proline-rich attachment domain (PRAD) that binds an acetylcholinesterase tetramer to anchor the catalytic subunit of the enzyme to the basal lamina. Mutations in this gene are associated with endplate acetylcholinesterase deficiency. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COLQ (Collagen-Like Tail Subunit (Single Strand Of Homotrimer) Of Asymmetric Acetylcholinesterase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COLQ include endplate acetylcholinesterase deficiency and colq-related congenital myasthenic syndrome. An important paralog of this gene is SCARA3.	Anchors the catalytic subunits of asymmetric AChE to the synaptic basal lamina	same
COLEC12	This gene encodes a member of the C-lectin family, proteins that possess collagen-like sequences and carbohydrate recognition domains. This protein is a scavenger receptor, a cell surface glycoprotein that displays several functions associated with host defense. It can bind to carbohydrate antigens on microorganisms, facilitating their recognition and removal. It also mediates the recognition, internalization, and degradation of oxidatively modified low density lipoprotein by vascular endothelial cells. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]	COLEC12 (Collectin Sub-Family Member 12) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and mRNA Splicing - Major Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include scavenger receptor activity and signaling pattern recognition receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is SCARA3.	Scavenger receptor that displays several functions associated with host defense. Promotes binding and phagocytosis of Gram-positive, Gram-negative bacteria and yeast. Mediates the recognition, internalization and degradation of oxidatively modified low density lipoprotein (oxLDL) by vascular endothelial cells. Binds to several carbohydrates including Gal-type ligands, D-galactose, L- and D-fucose, GalNAc, T and Tn antigens in a calcium-dependent manner and internalizes specifically GalNAc in nurse-like cells. Binds also to sialyl Lewis X or a trisaccharide and asialo-orosomucoid (ASOR). May also play a role in the clearance of amyloid beta in Alzheimer disease.	same
COL6A6	empty	COL6A6 (Collagen, Type VI, Alpha 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Signaling by FGFR. An important paralog of this gene is SCARA3.	Collagen VI acts as a cell-binding protein.	same
COMTD1	empty	COMTD1 (Catechol-O-Methyltransferase Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include O-methyltransferase activity.	Putative O-methyltransferase.	same
COMT	Catechol-O-methyltransferase catalyzes the transfer of a methyl group from S-adenosylmethionine to catecholamines, including the neurotransmitters dopamine, epinephrine, and norepinephrine. This O-methylation results in one of the major degradative pathways of the catecholamine transmitters. In addition to its role in the metabolism of endogenous substances, COMT is important in the metabolism of catechol drugs used in the treatment of hypertension, asthma, and Parkinson disease. COMT is found in two forms in tissues, a soluble form (S-COMT) and a membrane-bound form (MB-COMT). The differences between S-COMT and MB-COMT reside within the N-termini. Several transcript variants are formed through the use of alternative translation initiation sites and promoters. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008]	COMT (Catechol-O-Methyltransferase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COMT include panic disorder and cisplatin toxicity. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include magnesium ion binding and catechol O-methyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is LRTOMT.	Catalyzes the O-methylation, and thereby the inactivation, of catecholamine neurotransmitters and catechol hormones. Also shortens the biological half-lives of certain neuroactive drugs, like L-DOPA, alpha-methyl DOPA and isoproterenol	same
COPB2	The Golgi coatomer complex (see MIM 601924) constitutes the coat of nonclathrin-coated vesicles and is essential for Golgi budding and vesicular trafficking. It consists of 7 protein subunits, including COPB2.[supplied by OMIM, Jul 2002]	COPB2 (Coatomer Protein Complex, Subunit Beta 2 (Beta Prime)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are COPI Mediated Transport and COPI Mediated Transport. GO annotations related to this gene include structural molecule activity.	The coatomer is a cytosolic protein complex that binds to dilysine motifs and reversibly associates with Golgi non-clathrin-coated vesicles, which further mediate biosynthetic protein transport from the ER, via the Golgi up to the trans Golgi network. Coatomer complex is required for budding from Golgi membranes, and is essential for the retrograde Golgi-to-ER transport of dilysine-tagged proteins. In mammals, the coatomer can only be recruited by membranes associated to ADP-ribosylation factors (ARFs), which are small GTP-binding proteins; the complex also influences the Golgi structural integrity, as well as the processing, activity, and endocytic recycling of LDL receptors (By similarity).	same
COPG	empty	COPG1 (Coatomer Protein Complex, Subunit Gamma 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are COPI Mediated Transport and COPI Mediated Transport. GO annotations related to this gene include structural molecule activity.	The coatomer is a cytosolic protein complex that binds to dilysine motifs and reversibly associates with Golgi non-clathrin-coated vesicles, which further mediate biosynthetic protein transport from the ER, via the Golgi up to the trans Golgi network. Coatomer complex is required for budding from Golgi membranes, and is essential for the retrograde Golgi-to-ER transport of dilysine-tagged proteins. In mammals, the coatomer can only be recruited by membranes associated to ADP-ribosylation factors (ARFs), which are small GTP-binding proteins; the complex also influences the Golgi structural integrity, as well as the processing, activity, and endocytic recycling of LDL receptors. Required for limiting lipid storage in lipid droplets. Involved in lipid homeostasis by regulating the presence of perilipin family members PLIN2 and PLIN3 at the lipid droplet surface and promoting the association of adipocyte triglyceride lipase (PNPLA2) with the lipid droplet surface to mediate lipolysis (By similarity).	diff
COPS2	empty	COPS2 (COP9 Signalosome Subunit 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COPS2 include facial hemiatrophy and tactile agnosia. Among its related pathways are PI-3K cascade and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include signal transducer activity and transcription corepressor activity. An important paralog of this gene is PSMD11.	Essential component of the COP9 signalosome complex (CSN), a complex involved in various cellular and developmental processes. The CSN complex is an essential regulator of the ubiquitin (Ubl) conjugation pathway by mediating the deneddylation of the cullin subunits of SCF-type E3 ligase complexes, leading to decrease the Ubl ligase activity of SCF-type complexes such as SCF, CSA or DDB2. The complex is also involved in phosphorylation of p53/TP53, c-jun/JUN, IkappaBalpha/NFKBIA, ITPK1 and IRF8/ICSBP, possibly via its association with CK2 and PKD kinases. CSN-dependent phosphorylation of TP53 and JUN promotes and protects degradation by the Ubl system, respectively. Involved in early stage of neuronal differentiation via its interaction with NIF3L1.	same
COPS3	The protein encoded by this gene possesses kinase activity that phosphorylates regulators involved in signal transduction. It phosphorylates I kappa-Balpha, p105, and c-Jun. It acts as a docking site for complex-mediated phosphorylation. The gene is located within the Smith-Magenis syndrome region on chromosome 17. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]	COPS3 (COP9 Signalosome Subunit 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are TNF-alpha/NF-kB Signaling Pathway.	Component of the COP9 signalosome complex (CSN), a complex involved in various cellular and developmental processes. The CSN complex is an essential regulator of the ubiquitin (Ubl) conjugation pathway by mediating the deneddylation of the cullin subunits of SCF-type E3 ligase complexes, leading to decrease the Ubl ligase activity of SCF-type complexes such as SCF, CSA or DDB2. The complex is also involved in phosphorylation of p53/TP53, c-jun/JUN, IkappaBalpha/NFKBIA, ITPK1 and IRF8/ICSBP, possibly via its association with CK2 and PKD kinases. CSN-dependent phosphorylation of TP53 and JUN promotes and protects degradation by the Ubl system, respectively.	same
COPS5	The protein encoded by this gene is one of the eight subunits of COP9 signalosome, a highly conserved protein complex that functions as an important regulator in multiple signaling pathways. The structure and function of COP9 signalosome is similar to that of the 19S regulatory particle of 26S proteasome. COP9 signalosome has been shown to interact with SCF-type E3 ubiquitin ligases and act as a positive regulator of E3 ubiquitin ligases. This protein is reported to be involved in the degradation of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor CDKN1B/p27Kip1. It is also known to be an coactivator that increases the specificity of JUN/AP1 transcription factors. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COPS5 (COP9 Signalosome Subunit 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COPS5 include hepatocellular carcinoma. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle / Checkpoint Control and HIF1Alpha Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include transcription coactivator activity and translation initiation factor activity.	Probable protease subunit of the COP9 signalosome complex (CSN), a complex involved in various cellular and developmental processes. The CSN complex is an essential regulator of the ubiquitin (Ubl) conjugation pathway by mediating the deneddylation of the cullin subunits of the SCF-type E3 ligase complexes, leading to decrease the Ubl ligase activity of SCF-type complexes such as SCF, CSA or DDB2. The complex is also involved in phosphorylation of p53/TP53, c-jun/JUN, IkappaBalpha/NFKBIA, ITPK1 and IRF8, possibly via its association with CK2 and PKD kinases. CSN-dependent phosphorylation of TP53 and JUN promotes and protects degradation by the Ubl system, respectively. In the complex, it probably acts as the catalytic center that mediates the cleavage of Nedd8 from cullins. It however has no metalloprotease activity by itself and requires the other subunits of the CSN complex. Interacts directly with a large number of proteins that are regulated by the CSN complex, confirming a key role in the complex. Promotes the proteasomal degradation of BRSK2.	same
COL9A2	This gene encodes one of the three alpha chains of type IX collagen, the major collagen component of hyaline cartilage. Type IX collagen, a heterotrimeric molecule, is usually found in tissues containing type II collagen, a fibrillar collagen. This chain is unusual in that, unlike the other two type IX alpha chains, it contains a covalently attached glycosaminoglycan side chain. Mutations in this gene are associated with multiple epiphyseal dysplasia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COL9A2 (Collagen, Type IX, Alpha 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COL9A2 include epiphyseal dysplasia, multiple, 2 and intervertebral disc disease. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include extracellular matrix structural constituent conferring tensile strength. An important paralog of this gene is COL21A1.	Structural component of hyaline cartilage and vitreous of the eye	same
COPS6	The protein encoded by this gene is one of the eight subunits of COP9 signalosome, a highly conserved protein complex that functions as an important regulator in multiple signaling pathways. The structure and function of COP9 signalosome is similar to that of the 19S regulatory particle of 26S proteasome. COP9 signalosome has been shown to interact with SCF-type E3 ubiquitin ligases and act as a positive regulator of E3 ubiquitin ligases. This protein belongs to translation initiation factor 3 (eIF3) superfamily. It is involved in the regulation of cell cycle and likely to be a cellular cofactor for HIV-1 accessory gene product Vpr. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COPS6 (COP9 Signalosome Subunit 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COPS6 include hiv-1. Among its related pathways are Nucleotide-binding domain, leucine rich repeat containing receptor (NLR) signaling pathways. An important paralog of this gene is PSMD7.	Component of the COP9 signalosome complex (CSN), a complex involved in various cellular and developmental processes. The CSN complex is an essential regulator of the ubiquitin (Ubl) conjugation pathway by mediating the deneddylation of the cullin subunits of SCF-type E3 ligase complexes, leading to decrease the Ubl ligase activity of SCF-type complexes such as SCF, CSA or DDB2. The complex is also involved in phosphorylation of p53/TP53, c-jun/JUN, IkappaBalpha/NFKBIA, ITPK1 and IRF8, possibly via its association with CK2 and PKD kinases. CSN-dependent phosphorylation of TP53 and JUN promotes and protects degradation by the Ubl system, respectively. Has some glucocorticoid receptor-responsive activity. Stabilizes RFWD2/COP1 through reducing RFWD2 auto-ubiquitination and decelerating RFWD2 turnover rate, hence regulates the ubiquitination of RFWD2 targets.	same
COMMD4	empty	COMMD4 (COMM Domain Containing 4) is a Protein Coding gene.	May modulate activity of cullin-RING E3 ubiquitin ligase (CRL) complexes (PubMed:21778237). Down-regulates activation of NF-kappa-B.	same
COPS4	This gene encodes one of eight subunits composing COP9 signalosome, a highly conserved protein complex that functions as an important regulator in multiple signaling pathways. The structure and function of COP9 signalosome is similar to that of the 19S regulatory particle of 26S proteasome. COP9 signalosome has been shown to interact with SCF-type E3 ubiquitin ligases and act as a positive regulator of E3 ubiquitin ligases. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]	COPS4 (COP9 Signalosome Subunit 4) is a Protein Coding gene.	Component of the COP9 signalosome complex (CSN), a complex involved in various cellular and developmental processes. The CSN complex is an essential regulator of the ubiquitin (Ubl) conjugation pathway by mediating the deneddylation of the cullin subunits of SCF-type E3 ligase complexes, leading to decrease the Ubl ligase activity of SCF-type complexes such as SCF, CSA or DDB2. Also involved in the deneddylation of non-cullin subunits such as STON2. The complex is also involved in phosphorylation of p53/TP53, c-jun/JUN, IkappaBalpha/NFKBIA, ITPK1, IRF8/ICSBP and SNAPIN, possibly via its association with CK2 and PKD kinases. CSN-dependent phosphorylation of TP53 and JUN promotes and protects degradation by the Ubl system, respectively.	same
COPS7A	This gene encodes a component of the COP9 signalosome, an evolutionarily conserved multi-subunit protease that regulates the activity of the ubiquitin conjugation pathway. Alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode the same protein have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2014]	COPS7A (COP9 Signalosome Subunit 7A) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is COPS7B.	Component of the COP9 signalosome complex (CSN), a complex involved in various cellular and developmental processes. The CSN complex is an essential regulator of the ubiquitin (Ubl) conjugation pathway by mediating the deneddylation of the cullin subunits of SCF-type E3 ligase complexes, leading to decrease the Ubl ligase activity of SCF-type complexes such as SCF, CSA or DDB2. The complex is also involved in phosphorylation of p53/TP53, JUN, I-kappa-B-alpha/NFKBIA, ITPK1 and IRF8/ICSBP, possibly via its association with CK2 and PKD kinases. CSN-dependent phosphorylation of TP53 and JUN promotes and protects degradation by the Ubl system, respectively.	same
COPS8	The protein encoded by this gene is one of the eight subunits of COP9 signalosome, a highly conserved protein complex that functions as an important regulator in multiple signaling pathways. The structure and function of COP9 signalosome is similar to that of the 19S regulatory particle of 26S proteasome. COP9 signalosome has been shown to interact with SCF-type E3 ubiquitin ligases and act as a positive regulator of E3 ubiquitin ligases. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been observed. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COPS8 (COP9 Signalosome Subunit 8) is a Protein Coding gene.	Component of the COP9 signalosome complex (CSN), a complex involved in various cellular and developmental processes. The CSN complex is an essential regulator of the ubiquitin (Ubl) conjugation pathway by mediating the deneddylation of the cullin subunits of SCF-type E3 ligase complexes, leading to decrease the Ubl ligase activity of SCF-type complexes such as SCF, CSA or DDB2. The complex is also involved in phosphorylation of p53/TP53, c-jun/JUN, IkappaBalpha/NFKBIA, ITPK1 and IRF8/ICSBP, possibly via its association with CK2 and PKD kinases. CSN-dependent phosphorylation of TP53 and JUN promotes and protects degradation by the Ubl system, respectively.	same
COPA	In eukaryotic cells, protein transport between the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi compartments is mediated in part by non-clathrin-coated vesicular coat proteins (COPs). Seven coat proteins have been identified, and they represent subunits of a complex known as coatomer. The subunits are designated alpha-COP, beta-COP, beta-prime-COP, gamma-COP, delta-COP, epsilon-COP, and zeta-COP. The alpha-COP, encoded by COPA, shares high sequence similarity with RET1P, the alpha subunit of the coatomer complex in yeast. Also, the N-terminal 25 amino acids of alpha-COP encode the bioactive peptide, xenin, which stimulates exocrine pancreatic secretion and may act as a gastrointestinal hormone. Alternative splicing results in multiple splice forms encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COPA (Coatomer Protein Complex, Subunit Alpha) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Arf1 pathway and COPI Mediated Transport. GO annotations related to this gene include structural molecule activity and hormone activity. An important paralog of this gene is STRN.	The coatomer is a cytosolic protein complex that binds to dilysine motifs and reversibly associates with Golgi non-clathrin-coated vesicles, which further mediate biosynthetic protein transport from the ER, via the Golgi up to the trans Golgi network. Coatomer complex is required for budding from Golgi membranes, and is essential for the retrograde Golgi-to-ER transport of dilysine-tagged proteins. In mammals, the coatomer can only be recruited by membranes associated to ADP-ribosylation factors (ARFs), which are small GTP-binding proteins; the complex also influences the Golgi structural integrity, as well as the processing, activity, and endocytic recycling of LDL receptors (By similarity).	same
COPB1	This gene encodes a protein subunit of the coatomer complex associated with non-clathrin coated vesicles. The coatomer complex, also known as the coat protein complex 1, forms in the cytoplasm and is recruited to the Golgi by activated guanosine triphosphatases. Once at the Golgi membrane, the coatomer complex may assist in the movement of protein and lipid components back to the endoplasmic reticulum. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]	COPB1 (Coatomer Protein Complex, Subunit Beta 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COPB1 include oculocerebrorenal syndrome. Among its related pathways are COPI Mediated Transport and COPI Mediated Transport. GO annotations related to this gene include structural molecule activity.	The coatomer is a cytosolic protein complex that binds to dilysine motifs and reversibly associates with Golgi non-clathrin-coated vesicles, which further mediate biosynthetic protein transport from the ER, via the Golgi up to the trans Golgi network. Coatomer complex is required for budding from Golgi membranes, and is essential for the retrograde Golgi-to-ER transport of dilysine-tagged proteins. In mammals, the coatomer can only be recruited by membranes associated to ADP-ribosylation factors (ARFs), which are small GTP-binding proteins; the complex also influences the Golgi structural integrity, as well as the processing, activity, and endocytic recycling of LDL receptors. Plays a functional role in facilitating the transport of kappa-type opioid receptor mRNAs into axons and enhances translation of these proteins. Required for limiting lipid storage in lipid droplets. Involved in lipid homeostasis by regulating the presence of perilipin family members PLIN2 and PLIN3 at the lipid droplet surface and promoting the association of adipocyte surface triglyceride lipase (PNPLA2) with the lipid droplet to mediate lipolysis (By similarity). Involved in the Golgi disassembly and reassembly processes during cell cycle. Involved in autophagy by playing a role in early endosome function. Plays a role in organellar compartmentalization of secretory compartments including endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-Golgi intermediate compartment (ERGIC), Golgi, trans-Golgi network (TGN) and recycling endosomes, and in biosynthetic transport of CAV1. Promotes degradation of Nef cellular targets CD4 and MHC class I antigens by facilitating their trafficking to degradative compartments.	same
COPZ2	This gene encodes a member of the adaptor complexes small subunit family. The encoded protein is a subunit of the coatomer protein complex, a seven-subunit complex that functions in the formation of COPI-type, non-clathrin-coated vesicles. COPI vesicles function in the retrograde Golgi-to-ER transport of dilysine-tagged proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2014]	COPZ2 (Coatomer Protein Complex, Subunit Zeta 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are COPI Mediated Transport and Delta508-CFTR traffic / ER-to-Golgi in CF. An important paralog of this gene is COPZ1.	The coatomer is a cytosolic protein complex that binds to dilysine motifs and reversibly associates with Golgi non-clathrin-coated vesicles, which further mediate biosynthetic protein transport from the ER, via the Golgi up to the trans Golgi network. Coatomer complex is required for budding from Golgi membranes, and is essential for the retrograde Golgi-to-ER transport of dilysine-tagged proteins. The zeta subunit may be involved in regulating the coat assembly and, hence, the rate of biosynthetic protein transport due to its association-dissociation properties with the coatomer complex (By similarity).	same
COQ10A	empty	COQ10A (Coenzyme Q10 Homolog A (S. Cerevisiae)) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is COQ10B.	Required for the function of coenzyme Q in the respiratory chain. May serve as a chaperone or may be involved in the transport of Q6 from its site of synthesis to the catalytic sites of the respiratory complexes (Probable).	same
COQ10B	empty	COQ10B (Coenzyme Q10 Homolog B (S. Cerevisiae)) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is COQ10A.	Required for the function of coenzyme Q in the respiratory chain. May serve as a chaperone or may be involved in the transport of Q6 from its site of synthesis to the catalytic sites of the respiratory complexes (By similarity).	same
COQ2	This gene encodes an enzyme that functions in the final steps in the biosynthesis of CoQ (ubiquinone), a redox carrier in the mitochondrial respiratory chain and a lipid-soluble antioxidant. This enzyme, which is part of the coenzyme Q10 pathway, catalyzes the prenylation of parahydroxybenzoate with an all-trans polyprenyl group. Mutations in this gene cause coenzyme Q10 deficiency, a mitochondrial encephalomyopathy, and also COQ2 nephropathy, an inherited form of mitochondriopathy with primary renal involvement. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]	COQ2 (Coenzyme Q2 4-Hydroxybenzoate Polyprenyltransferase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COQ2 include multiple system atrophy and coenzyme q10 deficiency, primary, 1. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include 4-hydroxybenzoate decaprenyltransferase activity and 4-hydroxybenzoate nonaprenyltransferase activity.	Catalyzes the prenylation of para-hydroxybenzoate (PHB) with an all-trans polyprenyl group. Mediates the second step in the final reaction sequence of coenzyme Q (CoQ) biosynthesis, which is the condensation of the polyisoprenoid side chain with PHB, generating the first membrane-bound Q intermediate.	same
COPE	The product of this gene is an epsilon subunit of coatomer protein complex. Coatomer is a cytosolic protein complex that binds to dilysine motifs and reversibly associates with Golgi non-clathrin-coated vesicles. It is required for budding from Golgi membranes, and is essential for the retrograde Golgi-to-ER transport of dilysine-tagged proteins. Coatomer complex consists of at least the alpha, beta, beta', gamma, delta, epsilon and zeta subunits. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COPE (Coatomer Protein Complex, Subunit Epsilon) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are COPI Mediated Transport and COPI Mediated Transport. GO annotations related to this gene include structural molecule activity.	The coatomer is a cytosolic protein complex that binds to dilysine motifs and reversibly associates with Golgi non-clathrin-coated vesicles, which further mediate biosynthetic protein transport from the ER, via the Golgi up to the trans Golgi network. The coatomer complex is required for budding from Golgi membranes, and is essential for the retrograde Golgi-to-ER transport of dilysine-tagged proteins. In mammals, the coatomer can only be recruited by membranes associated with ADP-ribosylation factors (ARFs), which are small GTP-binding proteins; the complex also influences the Golgi structural integrity, as well as the processing, activity, and endocytic recycling of LDL receptors (By similarity).	same
COQ3	Ubiquinone, also known as coenzyme Q, or Q, is a critical component of the electron transport pathways of both eukaryotes and prokaryotes (Jonassen and Clarke, 2000 [PubMed 10777520]). This lipid consists of a hydrophobic isoprenoid tail and a quinone head group. The tail varies in length depending on the organism, but its purpose is to anchor coenzyme Q to the membrane. The quinone head group is responsible for the activity of coenzyme Q in the respiratory chain. The S. cerevisiae COQ3 gene encodes an O-methyltransferase required for 2 steps in the biosynthetic pathway of coenzyme Q. This enzyme methylates an early coenzyme Q intermediate, 3,4-dihydroxy-5-polyprenylbenzoic acid, as well as the final intermediate in the pathway, converting demethyl-ubiquinone to coenzyme Q. The COQ3 gene product is also capable of methylating the distinct prokaryotic early intermediate 2-hydroxy-6-polyprenyl phenol.[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	COQ3 (Coenzyme Q3 Methyltransferase) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include O-methyltransferase activity and 2-polyprenyl-6-methoxy-1,4-benzoquinone methyltransferase activity.	O-methyltransferase that catalyzes the 2 O-methylation steps in the ubiquinone biosynthetic pathway.	same
COMP	The protein encoded by this gene is a noncollagenous extracellular matrix (ECM) protein. It consists of five identical glycoprotein subunits, each with EGF-like and calcium-binding (thrombospondin-like) domains. Oligomerization results from formation of a five-stranded coiled coil and disulfides. Binding to other ECM proteins such as collagen appears to depend on divalent cations. Mutations can cause the osteochondrodysplasias pseudochondroplasia (PSACH) and multiple epiphyseal dysplasia (MED). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COMP (Cartilage Oligomeric Matrix Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COMP include pseudoachondroplasia and epiphyseal dysplasia, multiple 1. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Focal adhesion. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and extracellular matrix structural constituent. An important paralog of this gene is THBS4.	May play a role in the structural integrity of cartilage via its interaction with other extracellular matrix proteins such as the collagens and fibronectin. Can mediate the interaction of chondrocytes with the cartilage extracellular matrix through interaction with cell surface integrin receptors. Could play a role in the pathogenesis of osteoarthritis. Potent suppressor of apoptosis in both primary chondrocytes and transformed cells. Suppresses apoptosis by blocking the activation of caspase-3 and by inducing the IAP family of survival proteins (BIRC3, BIRC2, BIRC5 and XIAP). Essential for maintaining a vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) contractile/differentiated phenotype under physiological and pathological stimuli. Maintains this phenotype of VSMCs by interacting with ITGA7 (By similarity).	same
COQ5	empty	COQ5 (Coenzyme Q5 Homolog, Methyltransferase (S. Cerevisiae)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include methyltransferase activity.	Methyltransferase required for the conversion of 2-polyprenyl-6-methoxy-1,4-benzoquinol (DDMQH2) to 2-polyprenyl-3-methyl-6-methoxy-1,4-benzoquinol (DMQH2).	same
COQ6	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the ubiH/COQ6 family. It is an evolutionarily conserved monooxygenase required for the biosynthesis of coenzyme Q10 (or ubiquinone), which is an essential component of the mitochondrial electron transport chain, and one of the most potent lipophilic antioxidants implicated in the protection of cell damage by reactive oxygen species. Knockdown of this gene in mouse and zebrafish results in decreased growth due to increased apoptosis. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal recessive coenzyme Q10 deficiency-6 (COQ10D6), which manifests as nephrotic syndrome with sensorineural deafness. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]	COQ6 (Coenzyme Q6 Monooxygenase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COQ6 include coenzyme q10 deficiency, primary, 6 and familial steroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome with sensorineural deafness. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include flavin adenine dinucleotide binding and oxidoreductase activity, acting on paired donors, with incorporation or reduction of molecular oxygen, NAD(P)H as one donor, and incorporation of one atom of oxygen.	FAD-dependent monooxygenase required for the C5-ring hydroxylation during ubiquinone biosynthesis. Catalyzes the hydroxylation of 3-polyprenyl-4-hydroxybenzoic acid to 3-polyprenyl-4,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid. The electrons required for the hydroxylation reaction may be funneled indirectly from NADPH via a ferredoxin/ferredoxin reductase system to COQ6.	same
COQ7	The protein encoded by this gene is similar to a mitochondrial di-iron containing hydroxylase in Saccharomyces cerevisiae that is involved with ubiquinone biosynthesis. Mutations in the yeast gene lead to slower development and longer life span. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]	COQ7 (Coenzyme Q7 Homolog, Ubiquinone (Yeast)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include oxidoreductase activity and transition metal ion binding.	Involved in lifespan determination in ubiquinone-independent manner. Involved in ubiquinone biosynthesis. Potential central metabolic regulator (By similarity).	same
COQ4	This gene encodes a component of the coenzyme Q biosynthesis pathway. Coenzyme Q, an essential component of the electron transport chain, shuttles electrons between complexes I or II to complex III of the mitochondrial transport chain. This protein appears to play a structural role in stabilizing a complex that contains most of the coenzyme Q biosynthesis enzymes. Mutations in this gene are associated with mitochondrial disorders linked to coenzyme Q deficiency. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2015]	COQ4 (Coenzyme Q4) is a Protein Coding gene.	Component of the coenzyme Q biosynthetic pathway. May play a role in organizing a multi-subunit COQ enzyme complex required for coenzyme Q biosynthesis. Required for steady-state levels of other COQ polypeptides.	same
COMMD3	empty	COMMD3 (COMM Domain Containing 3) is a Protein Coding gene.	May modulate activity of cullin-RING E3 ubiquitin ligase (CRL) complexes (PubMed:21778237). May down-regulate activation of NF-kappa-B (PubMed:15799966). Modulates Na(+) transport in epithelial cells by regulation of apical cell surface expression of amiloride-sensitive sodium channel (ENaC) subunits (PubMed:23637203).	same
CORIN	This gene encodes a member of the type II transmembrane serine protease class of the trypsin superfamily. Members of this family are composed of multiple structurally distinct domains. The encoded protein converts pro-atrial natriuretic peptide to biologically active atrial natriuretic peptide, a cardiac hormone that regulates blood volume and pressure. This protein may also function as a pro-brain-type natriuretic peptide convertase. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2013]	CORIN (Corin, Serine Peptidase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CORIN include preeclampsia/eclampsia 5 and preeclampsia/eclampsia 1. Among its related pathways are Myometrial Relaxation and Contraction Pathways. GO annotations related to this gene include serine-type endopeptidase activity and serine-type exopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CFI.	Serine-type endopeptidase involved in atrial natriuretic peptide hormone (NPPA) processing. Converts through proteolytic cleavage the non-functional propeptide NPPA into the active hormone, thereby regulating blood pressure in heart and promoting natriuresis, diuresis and vasodilation. Proteolytic cleavage of pro-NPPA also plays a role in female pregnancy by promoting trophoblast invasion and spiral artery remodeling in uterus. Also acts as a regulator of sodium reabsorption in kidney. May also process pro-NPPB the B-type natriuretic peptide	same
CORO1C	This gene encodes a member of the WD repeat protein family. WD repeats are minimally conserved regions of approximately 40 amino acids typically bracketed by gly-his and trp-asp (GH-WD), which may facilitate formation of heterotrimeric or multiprotein complexes. Members of this family are involved in a variety of cellular processes, including cell cycle progression, signal transduction, apoptosis, and gene regulation. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2013]	CORO1C (Coronin, Actin Binding Protein, 1C) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CORO1C include coronin-1a deficiency. GO annotations related to this gene include actin filament binding. An important paralog of this gene is CORO6.	May be involved in cytokinesis, motility, and signal transduction.	same
COQ9	This locus represents a mitochondrial ubiquinone biosynthesis gene. The encoded protein is likely necessary for biosynthesis of coenzyme Q10, as mutations at this locus have been associated with autosomal-recessive neonatal-onset primary coenzyme Q10 deficiency.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]	COQ9 (Coenzyme Q9) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COQ9 include coenzyme q10 deficiency, primary, 5 and coq9-related coenzyme q10 deficiency.	Lipid-binding protein involved in the biosynthesis of coenzyme Q, also named ubiquinone, an essential lipid-soluble electron transporter for aerobic cellular respiration. Binds a phospholipid of at least 10 carbons in each acyl group. May be required to present its bound-lipid to COQ7.	same
CORO1B	Members of the coronin family, such as CORO1B, are WD repeat-containing actin-binding proteins that regulate cell motility (Cai et al., 2005 [PubMed 16027158]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CORO1B (Coronin, Actin Binding Protein, 1B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CORO1B include coronin-1a deficiency. GO annotations related to this gene include actin filament binding. An important paralog of this gene is CORO6.	Regulates leading edge dynamics and cell motility in fibroblasts. May be involved in cytokinesis and signal transduction (By similarity).	same
COPS7B	empty	COPS7B (COP9 Signalosome Subunit 7B) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is COPS7A.	Component of the COP9 signalosome complex (CSN), a complex involved in various cellular and developmental processes. The CSN complex is an essential regulator of the ubiquitin (Ubl) conjugation pathway by mediating the deneddylation of the cullin subunits of SCF-type E3 ligase complexes, leading to decrease the Ubl ligase activity of SCF-type complexes such as SCF, CSA or DDB2. The complex is also involved in phosphorylation of p53/TP53, JUN, I-kappa-B-alpha/NFKBIA, ITPK1 and IRF8/ICSBP, possibly via its association with CK2 and PKD kinases. CSN-dependent phosphorylation of TP53 and JUN promotes and protects degradation by the Ubl system, respectively.	same
CORO1A	This gene encodes a member of the WD repeat protein family. WD repeats are minimally conserved regions of approximately 40 amino acids typically bracketed by gly-his and trp-asp (GH-WD), which may facilitate formation of heterotrimeric or multiprotein complexes. Members of this family are involved in a variety of cellular processes, including cell cycle progression, signal transduction, apoptosis, and gene regulation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A related pseudogene has been defined on chromosome 16. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]	CORO1A (Coronin, Actin Binding Protein, 1A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CORO1A include immunodeficiency 8 and severe combined immunodeficiency due to coro1a deficiency. Among its related pathways are Tuberculosis and Phagosome. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and actin filament binding. An important paralog of this gene is CORO6.	May be a crucial component of the cytoskeleton of highly motile cells, functioning both in the invagination of large pieces of plasma membrane, as well as in forming protrusions of the plasma membrane involved in cell locomotion. In mycobacteria-infected cells, its retention on the phagosomal membrane prevents fusion between phagosomes and lysosomes.	same
CORO2A	This gene encodes a member of the WD repeat protein family. WD repeats are minimally conserved regions of approximately 40 amino acids typically bracketed by gly-his and trp-asp (GH-WD), which may facilitate formation of heterotrimeric or multiprotein complexes. Members of this family are involved in a variety of cellular processes, including cell cycle progression, signal transduction, apoptosis, and gene regulation. This protein contains 5 WD repeats, and has a structural similarity with actin-binding proteins: the D. discoideum coronin and the human p57 protein, suggesting that this protein may also be an actin-binding protein that regulates cell motility. Alternative splicing of this gene generates 2 transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CORO2A (Coronin, Actin Binding Protein, 2A) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include actin filament binding. An important paralog of this gene is CORO6.	empty	same
CORO7	Coronins, such as CORO7, constitute an evolutionarily conserved family of WD-repeat actin-binding proteins. CORO7 plays a role in Golgi complex morphology and function (Rybakin et al., 2004, 2006 [PubMed 15327992] [PubMed 16905771]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CORO7 (Coronin 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Mitochondrial Protein Import. An important paralog of this gene is CORO6.	F-actin regulator involved in anterograde Golgi to endosome transport: upon ubiquitination via Lys-33-linked ubiquitin chains by the BCR(KLHL20) E3 ubiquitin ligase complex, interacts with EPS15 and localizes to the trans-Golgi network, where it promotes actin polymerization, thereby facilitating post-Golgi trafficking. May play a role in the maintenance of the Golgi apparatus morphology.	same
CORO6	empty	CORO6 (Coronin 6) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include actin filament binding. An important paralog of this gene is CORO1A.	empty	same
CORT	This gene encodes a neuropeptide that is structurally similar to somatostatin. It binds to all known somatostatin receptors, and shares many pharmacological and functional properties with somatostatin, including the depression of neuronal activity. However, it also has many properties distinct from somatostatin, such as induction of slow-wave sleep, apparently by antagonism of the excitatory effects of acetylcholine on the cortex, reduction of locomotor activity, and activation of cation selective currents not responsive to somatostatin. The preproprotein undergoes further processing into multiple mature products. Read-through transcripts exist between this gene and the upstream APITD1 (apoptosis-inducing, TAF9-like domain 1) gene, as represented in GeneID:100526739. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]	CORT (Cortistatin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CORT include intestinal disease. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include G-protein coupled receptor binding and neuropeptide hormone activity.	Binds to all human somatostatin receptor (SSTR) subtypes. It also inhibits cAMP production induced by forskolin through SSTRs	same
COTL1	This gene encodes one of the numerous actin-binding proteins which regulate the actin cytoskeleton. This protein binds F-actin, and also interacts with 5-lipoxygenase, which is the first committed enzyme in leukotriene biosynthesis. Although this gene has been reported to map to chromosome 17 in the Smith-Magenis syndrome region, the best alignments for this gene are to chromosome 16. The Smith-Magenis syndrome region is the site of two related pseudogenes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COTL1 (Coactosin-Like F-Actin Binding Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COTL1 include smith-magenis syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding and enzyme binding.	Binds to F-actin in a calcium-independent manner. Has no direct effect on actin depolymerization. Acts as a chaperone for ALOX5 (5LO), influencing both its stability and activity in leukotrienes synthesis.	same
COX10	Cytochrome c oxidase (COX), the terminal component of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, catalyzes the electron transfer from reduced cytochrome c to oxygen. This component is a heteromeric complex consisting of 3 catalytic subunits encoded by mitochondrial genes and multiple structural subunits encoded by nuclear genes. The mitochondrially-encoded subunits function in electron transfer, and the nuclear-encoded subunits may function in the regulation and assembly of the complex. This nuclear gene encodes heme A:farnesyltransferase, which is not a structural subunit but required for the expression of functional COX and functions in the maturation of the heme A prosthetic group of COX. This protein is predicted to contain 7-9 transmembrane domains localized in the mitochondrial inner membrane. A gene mutation, which results in the substitution of a lysine for an asparagine (N204K), is identified to be responsible for cytochrome c oxidase deficiency. In addition, this gene is disrupted in patients with CMT1A (Charcot-Marie-Tooth type 1A) duplication and with HNPP (hereditary neuropathy with liability to pressure palsies) deletion. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COX10 (COX10 Heme A:Farnesyltransferase Cytochrome C Oxidase Assembly Factor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COX10 include mitochondrial complex iv deficiency and fatal infantile cytochrome c oxidase deficiency. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include cytochrome-c oxidase activity and protoheme IX farnesyltransferase activity.	Converts protoheme IX and farnesyl diphosphate to heme O.	same
COX15	Cytochrome c oxidase (COX), the terminal component of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, catalyzes the electron transfer from reduced cytochrome c to oxygen. This component is a heteromeric complex consisting of 3 catalytic subunits encoded by mitochondrial genes and multiple structural subunits encoded by nuclear genes. The mitochondrially-encoded subunits function in electron transfer, and the nuclear-encoded subunits may function in the regulation and assembly of the complex. This nuclear gene encodes a protein which is not a structural subunit, but may be essential for the biogenesis of COX formation and may function in the hydroxylation of heme O, according to the yeast mutant studies. This protein is predicted to contain 5 transmembrane domains localized in the mitochondrial inner membrane. Alternative splicing of this gene generates two transcript variants diverging in the 3' region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COX15 (Cytochrome C Oxidase Assembly Homolog 15 (Yeast)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COX15 include cardioencephalomyopathy, fatal infantile, due to cytochrome c oxidase deficiency 2 and fatal infantile cytochrome c oxidase deficiency. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include cytochrome-c oxidase activity and oxidoreductase activity, acting on the CH-CH group of donors.	May be involved in the biosynthesis of heme A.	same
COX11	Cytochrome c oxidase (COX), the terminal component of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, catalyzes the electron transfer from reduced cytochrome c to oxygen. This component is a heteromeric complex consisting of 3 catalytic subunits encoded by mitochondrial genes and multiple structural subunits encoded by nuclear genes. The mitochondrially-encoded subunits function in electron transfer, and the nuclear-encoded subunits may function in the regulation and assembly of the complex. This nuclear gene encodes a protein which is not a structural subunit, but may be a heme A biosynthetic enzyme involved in COX formation, according to the yeast mutant studies. However, the studies in Rhodobacter sphaeroides suggest that this gene is not required for heme A biosynthesis, but required for stable formation of the Cu(B) and magnesium centers of COX. This human protein is predicted to contain a transmembrane domain localized in the mitochondrial inner membrane. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. A related pseudogene has been found on chromosome 6. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]	COX11 (COX11 Cytochrome C Oxidase Copper Chaperone) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and AMPK Enzyme Complex Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and cytochrome-c oxidase activity.	Exerts its effect at some terminal stage of cytochrome c oxidase synthesis, probably by being involved in the insertion of the copper B into subunit I.	same
COX16	empty	COX16 (COX16 Cytochrome C Oxidase Assembly Homolog (S. Cerevisiae)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COX16 include intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma.	empty	same
COX19	COX19 encodes a cytochrome c oxidase (COX)-assembly protein. The S. cerevisiae Cox19 protein may play a role in metal transport to the mitochondrial intermembrane space and assembly of complex IV of the mitochondrial respiratory chain (Sacconi et al., 2005 [PubMed 16212937]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	COX19 (COX19 Cytochrome C Oxidase Assembly Factor) is a Protein Coding gene.	May be required for the assembly of mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase.	same
COX18	This gene encodes a cytochrome c oxidase assembly protein. The encoded protein is essential for integral membrane protein insertion into the mitochondrial inner membrane. It is also required for cytochrome c oxidase assembly and activity. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]	COX18 (COX18 Cytochrome C Oxidase Assembly Factor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COX18 include isolated cytochrome c oxidase deficiency. GO annotations related to this gene include protein transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is OXA1L.	Required for the insertion of integral membrane proteins into the mitochondrial inner membrane. Essential for the activity and assembly of cytochrome c oxidase. Plays a central role in the translocation and export of the C-terminal part of the COX2 protein into the mitochondrial intermembrane space.	same
COPZ1	This gene encodes a subunit of the cytoplasmic coatamer protein complex, which is involved in autophagy and intracellular protein trafficking. The coatomer protein complex is comprised of seven subunits and functions as the coat protein of coat protein complex (COP)I-vesicles. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2012]	COPZ1 (Coatomer Protein Complex, Subunit Zeta 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are COPI Mediated Transport and COPI Mediated Transport.	The coatomer is a cytosolic protein complex that binds to dilysine motifs and reversibly associates with Golgi non-clathrin-coated vesicles, which further mediate biosynthetic protein transport from the ER, via the Golgi up to the trans Golgi network. Coatomer complex is required for budding from Golgi membranes, and is essential for the retrograde Golgi-to-ER transport of dilysine-tagged proteins. In mammals, the coatomer can only be recruited by membranes associated to ADP-ribosylation factors (ARFs), which are small GTP-binding proteins; the complex also influences the Golgi structural integrity, as well as the processing, activity, and endocytic recycling of LDL receptors (By similarity).	same
COX5B	Cytochrome C oxidase (COX) is the terminal enzyme of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. It is a multi-subunit enzyme complex that couples the transfer of electrons from cytochrome c to molecular oxygen and contributes to a proton electrochemical gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane. The complex consists of 13 mitochondrial- and nuclear-encoded subunits. The mitochondrially-encoded subunits perform the electron transfer and proton pumping activities. The functions of the nuclear-encoded subunits are unknown but they may play a role in the regulation and assembly of the complex. This gene encodes the nuclear-encoded subunit Vb of the human mitochondrial respiratory chain enzyme. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COX5B (Cytochrome C Oxidase Subunit Vb) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include cytochrome-c oxidase activity.	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	same
COX6B1	Cytochrome c oxidase (COX), the terminal enzyme of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, catalyzes the electron transfer from reduced cytochrome c to oxygen. It is a heteromeric complex consisting of 3 catalytic subunits encoded by mitochondrial genes and multiple structural subunits encoded by nuclear genes. The mitochondrially-encoded subunits function in electron transfer, and the nuclear-encoded subunits may be involved in the regulation and assembly of the complex. This nuclear gene encodes subunit VIb. Mutations in this gene are associated with severe infantile encephalomyopathy. Three pseudogenes COX6BP-1, COX6BP-2 and COX6BP-3 have been found on chromosomes 7, 17 and 22q13.1-13.2, respectively. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]	COX6B1 (Cytochrome C Oxidase Subunit VIb Polypeptide 1 (Ubiquitous)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COX6B1 include isolated cytochrome c oxidase deficiency and mitochondrial complex iv deficiency. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include cytochrome-c oxidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is COX6B2.	Connects the two COX monomers into the physiological dimeric form.	same
COX6A1	Cytochrome c oxidase (COX), the terminal enzyme of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, catalyzes the electron transfer from reduced cytochrome c to oxygen. It is a heteromeric complex consisting of 3 catalytic subunits encoded by mitochondrial genes and multiple structural subunits encoded by nuclear genes. The mitochondrially-encoded subunits function in the electron transfer and the nuclear-encoded subunits may function in the regulation and assembly of the complex. This nuclear gene encodes polypeptide 1 (liver isoform) of subunit VIa, and polypeptide 1 is found in all non-muscle tissues. Polypeptide 2 (heart/muscle isoform) of subunit VIa is encoded by a different gene, and is present only in striated muscles. These two polypeptides share 66% amino acid sequence identity. It has been reported that there may be several pseudogenes on chromosomes 1, 6, 7q21, 7q31-32 and 12. However, only one pseudogene (COX6A1P) on chromosome 1p31.1 has been documented. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COX6A1 (Cytochrome C Oxidase Subunit VIa Polypeptide 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COX6A1 include charcot-marie-tooth disease, recessive intermediate d. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include cytochrome-c oxidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is COX6A2.	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	same
CORO2B	empty	CORO2B (Coronin, Actin Binding Protein, 2B) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding and actin filament binding. An important paralog of this gene is CORO6.	May play a role in the reorganization of neuronal actin structure	same
COX4I2	Cytochrome c oxidase (COX), the terminal enzyme of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, catalyzes the electron transfer from reduced cytochrome c to oxygen. It is a heteromeric complex consisting of 3 catalytic subunits encoded by mitochondrial genes and multiple structural subunits encoded by nuclear genes. The mitochondrially-encoded subunits function in electron transfer, and the nuclear-encoded subunits may be involved in the regulation and assembly of the complex. This nuclear gene encodes isoform 2 of subunit IV. Isoform 1 of subunit IV is encoded by a different gene, however, the two genes show a similar structural organization. Subunit IV is the largest nuclear encoded subunit which plays a pivotal role in COX regulation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COX4I2 (Cytochrome C Oxidase Subunit IV Isoform 2 (Lung)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COX4I2 include exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, dyserythropoietic anemia, and calvarial hyperostosis and pancreatic insufficiency - anemia - hyperostosis. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and AMPK Enzyme Complex Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include cytochrome-c oxidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is COX4I1.	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	same
COX7A1	Cytochrome c oxidase (COX), the terminal component of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, catalyzes the electron transfer from reduced cytochrome c to oxygen. This component is a heteromeric complex consisting of 3 catalytic subunits encoded by mitochondrial genes and multiple structural subunits encoded by nuclear genes. The mitochondrially-encoded subunits function in electron transfer, and the nuclear-encoded subunits may function in the regulation and assembly of the complex. This nuclear gene encodes polypeptide 1 (muscle isoform) of subunit VIIa and the polypeptide 1 is present only in muscle tissues. Other polypeptides of subunit VIIa are present in both muscle and nonmuscle tissues, and are encoded by different genes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COX7A1 (Cytochrome C Oxidase Subunit VIIa Polypeptide 1 (Muscle)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are AMPK Enzyme Complex Pathway and Alzheimers disease. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and cytochrome-c oxidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is COX7A2L.	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	same
COX7A2L	Cytochrome c oxidase (COX), the terminal component of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, catalyzes the electron transfer from reduced cytochrome c to oxygen. This component is a heteromeric complex consisting of 3 catalytic subunits encoded by mitochondrial genes and multiple structural subunits encoded by nuclear genes. The mitochondrially-encoded subunits function in electron transfer, and the nuclear-encoded subunits may function in the regulation and assembly of the complex. This nuclear gene encodes a protein similar to polypeptides 1 and 2 of subunit VIIa in the C-terminal region, and also highly similar to the mouse Sig81 protein sequence. This gene is expressed in all tissues, and upregulated in a breast cancer cell line after estrogen treatment. It is possible that this gene represents a regulatory subunit of COX and mediates the higher level of energy production in target cells by estrogen. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COX7A2L (Cytochrome C Oxidase Subunit VIIa Polypeptide 2 Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COX7A2L include breast cancer. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Alzheimers disease. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and cytochrome-c oxidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is COX7A2.	Involved in the regulation of oxidative phosphorylation and energy metabolism (By similarity). Necessary for the assembly of mitochondrial respiratory supercomplex (By similarity).	same
COX17	Cytochrome c oxidase (COX), the terminal component of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, catalyzes the electron transfer from reduced cytochrome c to oxygen. This component is a heteromeric complex consisting of 3 catalytic subunits encoded by mitochondrial genes and multiple structural subunits encoded by nuclear genes. The mitochondrially-encoded subunits function in electron transfer, and the nuclear-encoded subunits may function in the regulation and assembly of the complex. This nuclear gene encodes a protein which is not a structural subunit, but may be involved in the recruitment of copper to mitochondria for incorporation into the COX apoenzyme. This protein shares 92% amino acid sequence identity with mouse and rat Cox17 proteins. This gene is no longer considered to be a candidate gene for COX deficiency. A pseudogene COX17P has been found on chromosome 13. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COX17 (COX17 Cytochrome C Oxidase Copper Chaperone) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COX17 include isolated cytochrome c oxidase deficiency. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include copper ion binding and copper chaperone activity.	Copper chaperone for cytochrome c oxidase (COX). Binds two copper ions and deliver them to the Cu(A) site of COX (By similarity).	same
COX7B	Cytochrome c oxidase (COX), the terminal component of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, catalyzes the electron transfer from reduced cytochrome c to oxygen. This component is a heteromeric complex consisting of 3 catalytic subunits encoded by mitochondrial genes and multiple structural subunits encoded by nuclear genes. The mitochondrially-encoded subunits function in electron transfer, and the nuclear-encoded subunits may function in the regulation and assembly of the complex. This nuclear gene encodes subunit VIIb, which is highly similar to bovine COX VIIb protein and is found in all tissues. This gene may have several pseudogenes on chromosomes 1, 2, 20 and 22. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]	COX7B (Cytochrome C Oxidase Subunit VIIb) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COX7B include aplasia cutis congenita, reticulolinear, with mmicrocephaly, facial dysmorphism and other congenital anomalies and microphthalmia, syndromic 7. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include cytochrome-c oxidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is COX7B2.	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport. Plays a role in proper central nervous system (CNS) development in vertebrates.	same
COX8A	The protein encoded by this gene is the terminal enzyme of the respiratory chain, coupling the transfer of electrons from cytochrome c to molecular oxygen, with the concomitant production of a proton electrochemical gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane. In addition to 3 mitochondrially encoded subunits, which perform the catalytic function, the eukaryotic enzyme contains nuclear-encoded smaller subunits, ranging in number from 4 in some organisms to 10 in mammals. It has been proposed that nuclear-encoded subunits may be involved in the modulation of the catalytic function. This gene encodes one of the nuclear-encoded subunits. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COX8A (Cytochrome C Oxidase Subunit VIIIA (Ubiquitous)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include cytochrome-c oxidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000256100.	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	same
COX7C	Cytochrome c oxidase (COX), the terminal component of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, catalyzes the electron transfer from reduced cytochrome c to oxygen. This component is a heteromeric complex consisting of 3 catalytic subunits encoded by mitochondrial genes and multiple structural subunits encoded by nuclear genes. The mitochondrially-encoded subunits function in electron transfer, and the nuclear-encoded subunits may function in the regulation and assembly of the complex. This nuclear gene encodes subunit VIIc, which shares 87% and 85% amino acid sequence identity with mouse and bovine COX VIIc, respectively, and is found in all tissues. A pseudogene COX7CP1 has been found on chromosome 13. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COX7C (Cytochrome C Oxidase Subunit VIIc) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include cytochrome-c oxidase activity.	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	same
COX4I1	Cytochrome c oxidase (COX) is the terminal enzyme of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. It is a multi-subunit enzyme complex that couples the transfer of electrons from cytochrome c to molecular oxygen and contributes to a proton electrochemical gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane. The complex consists of 13 mitochondrial- and nuclear-encoded subunits. The mitochondrially-encoded subunits perform the electron transfer and proton pumping activities. The functions of the nuclear-encoded subunits are unknown but they may play a role in the regulation and assembly of the complex. This gene encodes the nuclear-encoded subunit IV isoform 1 of the human mitochondrial respiratory chain enzyme. It is located at the 3' of the NOC4 (neighbor of COX4) gene in a head-to-head orientation, and shares a promoter with it. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COX4I1 (Cytochrome C Oxidase Subunit IV Isoform 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COX4I1 include calvarial hyperostosis and exocrine pancreatic insufficiency. Among its related pathways are Cytoskeletal Signaling and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include cytochrome-c oxidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is COX4I2.	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	same
COX7A2	Cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal component of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, catalyzes the electron transfer from reduced cytochrome c to oxygen. This component is a heteromeric complex consisting of three catalytic subunits encoded by mitochondrial genes, and multiple structural subunits encoded by nuclear genes. The mitochondrially-encoded subunits function in electron transfer, while the nuclear-encoded subunits may function in the regulation and assembly of the complex. This nuclear gene encodes polypeptide 2 (liver isoform) of subunit VIIa, with this polypeptide being present in both muscle and non-muscle tissues. In addition to polypeptide 2, subunit VIIa includes polypeptide 1 (muscle isoform), which is present only in muscle tissues, and a related protein, which is present in all tissues. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 4 and 14. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]	COX7A2 (Cytochrome C Oxidase Subunit VIIa Polypeptide 2 (Liver)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COX7A2 include barrett's adenocarcinoma. Among its related pathways are AMPK Enzyme Complex Pathway and Alzheimers disease. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and cytochrome-c oxidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is COX7A2L.	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	same
COX5A	Cytochrome c oxidase (COX) is the terminal enzyme of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. It is a multi-subunit enzyme complex that couples the transfer of electrons from cytochrome c to molecular oxygen and contributes to a proton electrochemical gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane. The complex consists of 13 mitochondrial- and nuclear-encoded subunits. The mitochondrially-encoded subunits perform the electron transfer of proton pumping activities. The functions of the nuclear-encoded subunits are unknown but they may play a role in the regulation and assembly of the complex. This gene encodes the nuclear-encoded subunit Va of the human mitochondrial respiratory chain enzyme. A pseudogene COX5AP1 has been found in chromosome 14q22. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COX5A (Cytochrome C Oxidase Subunit Va) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COX5A include leukocoria and swayback. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and cytochrome-c oxidase activity.	This is the heme A-containing chain of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	same
COX6A2	Cytochrome c oxidase (COX), the terminal enzyme of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, catalyzes the electron transfer from reduced cytochrome c to oxygen. It is a heteromeric complex consisting of 3 catalytic subunits encoded by mitochondrial genes and multiple structural subunits encoded by nuclear genes. The mitochondrially-encoded subunits function in electron transfer, and the nuclear-encoded subunits may be involved in the regulation and assembly of the complex. This nuclear gene encodes polypeptide 2 (heart/muscle isoform) of subunit VIa, and polypeptide 2 is present only in striated muscles. Polypeptide 1 (liver isoform) of subunit VIa is encoded by a different gene, and is found in all non-muscle tissues. These two polypeptides share 66% amino acid sequence identity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	COX6A2 (Cytochrome C Oxidase Subunit VIa Polypeptide 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and AMPK Enzyme Complex Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include cytochrome-c oxidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is COX6A1.	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	same
COX4NB	empty	EMC8 (ER Membrane Protein Complex Subunit 8) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is EMC9.	empty	diff
COX7B2	empty	COX7B2 (Cytochrome C Oxidase Subunit VIIb2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and AMPK Enzyme Complex Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include cytochrome-c oxidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is COX7B.	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	same
CP110	empty	CCP110 (Centriolar Coiled Coil Protein 110kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic.	Necessary for centrosome duplication at different stages of procentriole formation. Acts as a key negative regulator of ciliogenesis in collaboration with CEP97 by capping the mother centriole thereby preventing cilia formation. Required for correct spindle formation and has a role in regulating cytokinesis and genome stability via cooperation with CALM1 and CETN2.	diff
CPA1	This gene encodes a member of the carboxypeptidase A family of zinc metalloproteases. This enzyme is produced in the pancreas and preferentially cleaves C-terminal branched-chain and aromatic amino acids from dietary proteins. This gene and several family members are present in a gene cluster on chromosome 7. Mutations in this gene may be linked to chronic pancreatitis, while elevated protein levels may be associated with pancreatic cancer. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2015]	CPA1 (Carboxypeptidase A1 (Pancreatic)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CPA1 include tracheal stenosis and pancreatitis, hereditary. Among its related pathways are Pancreatic secretion and Protein digestion and absorption. GO annotations related to this gene include metallocarboxypeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CPA3.	Carboxypeptidase that catalyzes the release of a C-terminal amino acid, but has little or no action with -Asp, -Glu, -Arg, -Lys or -Pro.	same
COX8C	empty	COX8C (Cytochrome C Oxidase Subunit VIIIC) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COX8C include fatty liver disease and hiv-1. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and AMPK Enzyme Complex Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include cytochrome-c oxidase activity.	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	same
CPA4	This gene is a member of the carboxypeptidase A/B subfamily, and it is located in a cluster with three other family members on chromosome 7. Carboxypeptidases are zinc-containing exopeptidases that catalyze the release of carboxy-terminal amino acids, and are synthesized as zymogens that are activated by proteolytic cleavage. This gene could be involved in the histone hyperacetylation pathway. It is imprinted and may be a strong candidate gene for prostate cancer aggressiveness. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CPA4 (Carboxypeptidase A4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CPA4 include richter's syndrome and silver-russell syndrome. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Pancreatic secretion. GO annotations related to this gene include metallocarboxypeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CPA3.	Metalloprotease that could be involved in the histone hyperacetylation pathway.	same
CPA6	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of carboxypeptidases, which catalyze the release of C-terminal amino acid, and have functions ranging from digestion of food to selective biosynthesis of neuroendocrine peptides. Polymorphic variants and a reciprocal translocation t(6;8)(q26;q13) involving this gene, have been associated with Duane retraction syndrome.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]	CPA6 (Carboxypeptidase A6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CPA6 include epilepsy, familial temporal lobe, 5 and febrile seizures, familial, 11. GO annotations related to this gene include metallocarboxypeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CPA3.	May be involved in the proteolytic inactivation of enkephalins and neurotensin in some brain areas. May convert inactive angiotensin I into the biologically active angiotensin II.	same
CPAMD8	CPAMD8 belongs to the complement component-3 (C3; MIM 120700)/alpha-2-macroglobulin (A2M; MIM 103950) family of proteins, which are involved in innate immunity and damage control. Complement components recognize and eliminate pathogens by direct binding or by mediating opsonization/phagocytosis and intracellular killing, and A2M is a broad-spectrum protease inhibitor (Li et al., 2004 [PubMed 15177561]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CPAMD8 (C3 And PZP-Like, Alpha-2-Macroglobulin Domain Containing 8) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include serine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CD109.	empty	same
COX6B2	empty	COX6B2 (Cytochrome C Oxidase Subunit VIb Polypeptide 2 (Testis)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and AMPK Enzyme Complex Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include cytochrome-c oxidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is COX6B1.	Connects the two COX monomers into the physiological dimeric form.	same
CPB1	Three different procarboxypeptidases A and two different procarboxypeptidases B have been isolated. The B1 and B2 forms differ from each other mainly in isoelectric point. Carboxypeptidase B1 is a highly tissue-specific protein and is a useful serum marker for acute pancreatitis and dysfunction of pancreatic transplants. It is not elevated in pancreatic carcinoma. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CPB1 (Carboxypeptidase B1 (Tissue)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CPB1 include trachea leiomyoma and tricuspid valve insufficiency. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Pancreatic secretion. GO annotations related to this gene include metallocarboxypeptidase activity and carboxypeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CPA3.	empty	same
COX6C	Cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal enzyme of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, catalyzes the electron transfer from reduced cytochrome c to oxygen. It is a heteromeric complex consisting of 3 catalytic subunits encoded by mitochondrial genes and multiple structural subunits encoded by nuclear genes. The mitochondrially-encoded subunits function in electron transfer, and the nuclear-encoded subunits may be involved in the regulation and assembly of the complex. This nuclear gene encodes subunit VIc, which has 77% amino acid sequence identity with mouse subunit VIc. This gene is up-regulated in prostate cancer cells. A pseudogene has been found on chromosomes 16p12. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]	COX6C (Cytochrome C Oxidase Subunit VIc) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COX6C include prostate cancer. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include cytochrome-c oxidase activity.	This protein is one of the nuclear-coded polypeptide chains of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal oxidase in mitochondrial electron transport	same
CPEB3	empty	CPEB3 (Cytoplasmic Polyadenylation Element Binding Protein 3) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and nucleotide binding. An important paralog of this gene is CPEB2.	empty	same
CPD	The metallocarboxypeptidase family of enzymes is divided into 2 subfamilies based on sequence similarities. The pancreatic carboxypeptidase-like and the regulatory B-type carboxypeptidase subfamilies. Carboxypeptidase D has been identified as a regulatory B-type carboxypeptidase. CPD is a homolog of duck gp180, a hepatitis B virus-binding protein. Transcript variants utilizing alternative polyadenylation signals exist for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CPD (Carboxypeptidase D) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CPD include hepatitis b and hepatitis. Among its related pathways are Clathrin derived vesicle budding and Clathrin derived vesicle budding. GO annotations related to this gene include metallocarboxypeptidase activity and serine-type carboxypeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CPN1.	empty	same
CPEB4	empty	CPEB4 (Cytoplasmic Polyadenylation Element Binding Protein 4) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and nucleotide binding. An important paralog of this gene is CPEB2.	empty	same
CPA5	Carboxypeptidases have functions ranging from digestion of food to selective biosynthesis of neuroendocrine peptides. Members of the A/B subfamily of carboxypeptidases, such as CPA5, contain an approximately 90-amino acid pro region that assists in the folding of the active carboxypeptidase domain. Cleavage of the pro region activates the enzyme (Wei et al., 2002 [PubMed 11836249]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CPA5 (Carboxypeptidase A5) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include metallocarboxypeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CPA3.	empty	same
CPLX1	Proteins encoded by the complexin/synaphin gene family are cytosolic proteins that function in synaptic vesicle exocytosis. These proteins bind syntaxin, part of the SNAP receptor. The protein product of this gene binds to the SNAP receptor complex and disrupts it, allowing transmitter release. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CPLX1 (Complexin 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CPLX1 include wernicke encephalopathy. Among its related pathways are Transmission across Chemical Synapses and Transmission across Chemical Synapses. GO annotations related to this gene include syntaxin-1 binding and neurotransmitter transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is CPLX2.	Positively regulates a late step in synaptic vesicle exocytosis. Organizes the SNAREs into a cross-linked zigzag topology that, when interposed between the vesicle and plasma membranes, is incompatible with fusion, thereby preventing SNAREs from releasing neurotransmitters until an action potential arrives at the synapse. Also involved in glucose-induced secretion of insulin by pancreatic beta-cells (By similarity).	same
CPE	This gene encodes a carboxypeptidase that cleaves C-terminal amino acid residues and is involved in the biosynthesis of peptide hormones and neurotransmitters, including insulin. It is a peripheral membrane protein. The protein specifically binds regulated secretory pathway proteins, including prohormones, but not constitutively secreted proteins. Mutations in this gene are implicated in type II diabetes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CPE (Carboxypeptidase E) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CPE include hyperproinsulinemia and pulmonary neuroendocrine tumor. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Arf6 trafficking events. GO annotations related to this gene include cell adhesion molecule binding and carboxypeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CPN1.	Removes residual C-terminal Arg or Lys remaining after initial endoprotease cleavage during prohormone processing. Processes proinsulin	same
CPEB2	The protein encoded by this gene is highly similar to cytoplasmic polyadenylation element binding protein (CPEB), an mRNA-binding protein that regulates cytoplasmic polyadenylation of mRNA as a trans factor in oogenesis and spermatogenesis. Studies of the similar gene in mice suggested a possible role of this protein in transcriptionally inactive haploid spermatids. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CPEB2 (Cytoplasmic Polyadenylation Element Binding Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and nucleotide binding. An important paralog of this gene is CPEB3.	May play a role in translational regulation of stored mRNAs in transcriptionally inactive haploid spermatids. Binds to poly(U) RNA oligomers (By similarity).	same
CPLX3	empty	CPLX3 (Complexin 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CPLX3 include hypoplastic left heart syndrome and imperforate anus. Among its related pathways are Synaptic vesicle cycle and Synaptic vesicle cycle. GO annotations related to this gene include syntaxin binding and neurotransmitter transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is CPLX4.	Positively regulates a late step in synaptic vesicle exocytosis.	same
CPM	The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane-bound arginine/lysine carboxypeptidase. Its expression is associated with monocyte to macrophage differentiation. This encoded protein contains hydrophobic regions at the amino and carboxy termini and has 6 potential asparagine-linked glycosylation sites. The active site residues of carboxypeptidases A and B are conserved in this protein. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CPM (Carboxypeptidase M) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include metallocarboxypeptidase activity and carboxypeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CPN1.	Specifically removes C-terminal basic residues (Arg or Lys) from peptides and proteins. It is believed to play important roles in the control of peptide hormone and growth factor activity at the cell surface, and in the membrane-localized degradation of extracellular proteins.	same
CPA2	Three different forms of human pancreatic procarboxypeptidase A have been isolated. The encoded protein represents the A2 form, which is a monomeric protein with different biochemical properties from the A1 and A3 forms. The A2 form of pancreatic procarboxypeptidase acts on aromatic C-terminal residues and is a secreted protein. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]	CPA2 (Carboxypeptidase A2 (Pancreatic)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Pancreatic secretion and Protein digestion and absorption. GO annotations related to this gene include metallocarboxypeptidase activity and carboxypeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CPA3.	empty	same
CPLX4	This gene likely encodes a member of the complexin family. The encoded protein may be involved in synaptic vesicle exocytosis. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]	CPLX4 (Complexin 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Synaptic vesicle cycle. GO annotations related to this gene include syntaxin binding. An important paralog of this gene is CPLX3.	Positively regulates a late step in synaptic vesicle exocytosis.	same
CPNE1	Calcium-dependent membrane-binding proteins may regulate molecular events at the interface of the cell membrane and cytoplasm. This gene encodes a calcium-dependent protein that also contains two N-terminal type II C2 domains and an integrin A domain-like sequence in the C-terminus. However, the encoded protein does not contain a predicted signal sequence or transmembrane domains. This protein has a broad tissue distribution and it may function in membrane trafficking. This gene and the gene for RNA binding motif protein 12 overlap at map location 20q11.21. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]	CPNE1 (Copine I) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Prostate Cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity and phosphatidylserine binding. An important paralog of this gene is CPNE7.	May function in membrane trafficking. Exhibits calcium-dependent phospholipid binding properties	same
CPNE2	Calcium-dependent membrane-binding proteins may regulate molecular events at the interface of the cell membrane and cytoplasm. This gene is one of several genes that encode a calcium-dependent protein containing two N-terminal type II C2 domains and an integrin A domain-like sequence in the C-terminus. Sequence analysis identified multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants but their full-length natures could not be determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CPNE2 (Copine II) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CPNE7.	empty	same
CPB2	Carboxypeptidases are enzymes that hydrolyze C-terminal peptide bonds. The carboxypeptidase family includes metallo-, serine, and cysteine carboxypeptidases. According to their substrate specificity, these enzymes are referred to as carboxypeptidase A (cleaving aliphatic residues) or carboxypeptidase B (cleaving basic amino residues). The protein encoded by this gene is activated by trypsin and acts on carboxypeptidase B substrates. After thrombin activation, the mature protein downregulates fibrinolysis. Polymorphisms have been described for this gene and its promoter region. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2013]	CPB2 (Carboxypeptidase B2 (Plasma)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CPB2 include meningococcal infection and hemophilia b. Among its related pathways are Complement and coagulation cascades and Complement and coagulation cascades. GO annotations related to this gene include metallocarboxypeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CPA3.	Cleaves C-terminal arginine or lysine residues from biologically active peptides such as kinins or anaphylatoxins in the circulation thereby regulating their activities. Down-regulates fibrinolysis by removing C-terminal lysine residues from fibrin that has already been partially degraded by plasmin.	same
CPN1	Carboxypeptidase N is a plasma metallo-protease that cleaves basic amino acids from the C terminal of peptides and proteins. The enzyme is important in the regulation of peptides like kinins and anaphylatoxins, and has also been known as kininase-1 and anaphylatoxin inactivator. This enzyme is a tetramer comprised of two identical regulatory subunits and two identical catalytic subunits; this gene encodes the catalytic subunit. Mutations in this gene can be associated with angioedema or chronic urticaria resulting from carboxypeptidase N deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CPN1 (Carboxypeptidase N, Polypeptide 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CPN1 include carboxypeptidase n deficiency and urticaria. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Prostate Cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include metallocarboxypeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CPD.	Protects the body from potent vasoactive and inflammatory peptides containing C-terminal Arg or Lys (such as kinins or anaphylatoxins) which are released into the circulation	same
CPEB1	This gene encodes a member of the cytoplasmic polyadenylation element binding protein family. This highly conserved protein binds to a specific RNA sequence, called the cytoplasmic polyadenylation element, found in the 3' untranslated region of some mRNAs. The encoded protein functions in both the cytoplasm and the nucleus. It is involved in the regulation of mRNA translation, as well as processing of the 3' untranslated region, and may play a role in cell proliferation and tumorigenesis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2014]	CPEB1 (Cytoplasmic Polyadenylation Element Binding Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Aurora A signaling and Oocyte meiosis. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleotide binding and mRNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is CPEB2.	Sequence-specific RNA-binding protein that regulates mRNA cytoplasmic polyadenylation and translation initiation during oocyte maturation, early development and at postsynapse sites of neurons. Binds to the cytoplasmic polyadenylation element (CPE), an uridine-rich sequence element (consensus sequence 5-UUUUUAU-3) within the mRNA 3-UTR. In absence of phosphorylation and in association with TACC3 is also involved as a repressor of translation of CPE-containing mRNA; a repression that is relieved by phosphorylation or degradation (By similarity). Involved in the transport of CPE-containing mRNA to dendrites; those mRNAs may be transported to dendrites in a translationally dormant form and translationally activated at synapses (By similarity). Its interaction with APLP1 promotes local CPE-containing mRNA polyadenylation and translation activation (By similarity). Induces the assembly of stress granules in the absence of stress.	same
CPNE4	This gene belongs to the highly conserved copine family. It encodes a calcium-dependent, phospholipid-binding protein, which may be involved in membrane trafficking, mitogenesis and development. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2014]	CPNE4 (Copine IV) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CPNE7.	May function in membrane trafficking. Exhibits calcium-dependent phospholipid binding properties (By similarity).	same
CPNE3	Calcium-dependent membrane-binding proteins may regulate molecular events at the interface of the cell membrane and cytoplasm. This gene encodes a protein which contains two type II C2 domains in the amino-terminus and an A domain-like sequence in the carboxy-terminus. The A domain mediates interactions between integrins and extracellular ligands. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]	CPNE3 (Copine III) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and calcium-dependent phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is CPNE7.	May function in membrane trafficking. Exhibits calcium-dependent phospholipid binding properties (By similarity).	same
CPNE6	This gene encodes a member of the copine family. Members of this family are calcium-dependent, phospholipid-binding proteins with C2 domains, two calcium- and phospholipid-binding domains. Through their domain structure and lipid binding capabilities, these proteins may play a role in membrane trafficking. This protein is thought to be brain-specific and has a domain structure of two N-terminal C2 domains and one von Willebrand factor A domain. It may have a role in synaptic plasticity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]	CPNE6 (Copine VI (Neuronal)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and phosphatidylserine binding. An important paralog of this gene is CPNE7.	May function in membrane trafficking. Exhibits calcium-dependent phospholipid binding properties. May have a role in synaptic plasticity (By similarity).	same
CPNE9	empty	CPNE9 (Copine Family Member IX) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CPNE7.	May function in membrane trafficking. Exhibits calcium-dependent phospholipid binding properties (By similarity).	same
CPO	This gene is a member of the metallocarboxypeptidase gene family. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]	CPO (Carboxypeptidase O) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CPO include coproporphyria. GO annotations related to this gene include metallocarboxypeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CPA3.	Probable carboxypeptidase which may cleave proteins with C-terminal acidic residues.	same
CPLX2	Proteins encoded by the complexin/synaphin gene family are cytosolic proteins that function in synaptic vesicle exocytosis. These proteins bind syntaxin, part of the SNAP receptor. The protein product of this gene binds to the SNAP receptor complex and disrupts it, allowing transmitter release. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CPLX2 (Complexin 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CPLX2 include schizophrenia. Among its related pathways are Synaptic vesicle cycle and Synaptic vesicle cycle. GO annotations related to this gene include syntaxin-1 binding. An important paralog of this gene is CPLX1.	Negatively regulates the formation of synaptic vesicle clustering at active zone to the presynaptic membrane in postmitotic neurons. Positively regulates a late step in synaptic vesicle exocytosis. Also involved in mast cell exocytosis (By similarity).	same
CPPED1	empty	CPPED1 (Calcineurin-Like Phosphoesterase Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrolase activity.	Protein phosphatase that dephosphorylates AKT family kinase specifically at Ser-473, blocking cell cycle progression and promoting cell apoptosis. May play an inhibitory role in glucose uptake by adipocytes.	same
CPS1	The mitochondrial enzyme encoded by this gene catalyzes synthesis of carbamoyl phosphate from ammonia and bicarbonate. This reaction is the first committed step of the urea cycle, which is important in the removal of excess urea from cells. The encoded protein may also represent a core mitochondrial nucleoid protein. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. The shortest isoform may not be localized to the mitochondrion. Mutations in this gene have been associated with carbamoyl phosphate synthetase deficiency, susceptibility to persistent pulmonary hypertension, and susceptibility to venoocclusive disease after bone marrow transplantation.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	CPS1 (Carbamoyl-Phosphate Synthase 1, Mitochondrial) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CPS1 include pulmonary hypertension, neonatal and carbamoylphosphate synthetase i deficiency. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Carbon metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and protein complex binding. An important paralog of this gene is CAD.	Involved in the urea cycle of ureotelic animals where the enzyme plays an important role in removing excess ammonia from the cell	same
CPSF1	Cleavage and polyadenylation specificity factor (CPSF) is a multisubunit complex that plays a central role in 3-prime processing of pre-mRNAs. CPSF recognizes the AAUAAA signal in the pre-mRNA and interacts with other proteins to facilitate both RNA cleavage and poly(A) synthesis. CPSF1 is the largest subunit of the CPSF complex (Murthy and Manley, 1995 [PubMed 7590244]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CPSF1 (Cleavage And Polyadenylation Specific Factor 1, 160kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and mRNA Splicing - Major Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include mRNA 3-UTR binding.	Component of the cleavage and polyadenylation specificity factor (CPSF) complex that plays a key role in pre-mRNA 3-end formation, recognizing the AAUAAA signal sequence and interacting with poly(A) polymerase and other factors to bring about cleavage and poly(A) addition. This subunit is involved in the RNA recognition step of the polyadenylation reaction.	same
CPA3	Three different forms of human pancreatic procarboxypeptidase A have been isolated. This gene encodes a form which is obtained as a binary complex of a procarboxypeptidase A with proproteinase E and functions as a secretory granule metalloexopeptidase. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]	CPA3 (Carboxypeptidase A3 (Mast Cell)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Pancreatic secretion. GO annotations related to this gene include metallocarboxypeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CPA2.	empty	same
CPN2	empty	CPN2 (Carboxypeptidase N, Polypeptide 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include enzyme regulator activity. An important paralog of this gene is LRRTM2.	The 83 kDa subunit binds and stabilizes the catalytic subunit at 37 degrees Celsius and keeps it in circulation. Under some circumstances it may be an allosteric modifier of the catalytic subunit	same
CPSF3L	The Integrator complex contains at least 12 subunits and associates with the C-terminal domain of RNA polymerase II large subunit (POLR2A; MIM 180660) and mediates the 3-prime end processing of small nuclear RNAs U1 (RNU1; MIM 180680) and U2 (RNU2; MIM 180690). INTS11, or CPSF3L, is the catalytic subunit of the Integrator complex (Baillat et al., 2005 [PubMed 16239144]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CPSF3L (Cleavage And Polyadenylation Specific Factor 3-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CPSF3L include meningococcal meningitis and anal fistula. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrolase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CPSF3.	Catalytic component of the Integrator complex, a complex involved in the small nuclear RNAs (snRNA) U1 and U2 transcription and in their 3-box-dependent processing. The Integrator complex is associated with the C-terminal domain (CTD) of RNA polymerase II largest subunit (POLR2A) and is recruited to the U1 and U2 snRNAs genes. Mediates the snRNAs 3 cleavage.	same
CPSF4L	empty	CPSF4L (Cleavage And Polyadenylation Specific Factor 4-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is CPSF4.	empty	same
CPSF6	The protein encoded by this gene is one subunit of a cleavage factor required for 3' RNA cleavage and polyadenylation processing. The interaction of the protein with the RNA is one of the earliest steps in the assembly of the 3' end processing complex and facilitates the recruitment of other processing factors. The cleavage factor complex is composed of four polypeptides. This gene encodes the 68kD subunit. It has a domain organization reminiscent of spliceosomal proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CPSF6 (Cleavage And Polyadenylation Specific Factor 6, 68kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by FGFR1 mutants. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and mRNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is CPSF7.	Component of the cleavage factor Im complex (CFIm) that plays a key role in pre-mRNA 3-processing. Involved in association with NUDT21/CPSF5 in pre-MRNA 3-end poly(A) site cleavage and poly(A) addition. CPSF6 binds to cleavage and polyadenylation RNA substrates and promotes RNA looping.	same
CPNE5	Calcium-dependent membrane-binding proteins may regulate molecular events at the interface of the cell membrane and cytoplasm. This gene is one of several genes that encode a calcium-dependent protein containing two N-terminal type II C2 domains and an integrin A domain-like sequence in the C-terminus. Sequence analysis identified multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants but their full-length natures could not be determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CPNE5 (Copine V) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CPNE7.	May function in membrane trafficking. Exhibits calcium-dependent phospholipid binding properties (By similarity).	same
CPSF7	empty	CPSF7 (Cleavage And Polyadenylation Specific Factor 7, 59kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and mRNA Splicing - Major Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and nucleotide binding. An important paralog of this gene is CPSF6.	Component of the cleavage factor Im complex (CFIm) that plays a key role in pre-mRNA 3-processing. Binds to cleavage and polyadenylation RNA substrates.	same
CPT1A	The mitochondrial oxidation of long-chain fatty acids is initiated by the sequential action of carnitine palmitoyltransferase I (which is located in the outer membrane and is detergent-labile) and carnitine palmitoyltransferase II (which is located in the inner membrane and is detergent-stable), together with a carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase. CPT I is the key enzyme in the carnitine-dependent transport across the mitochondrial inner membrane and its deficiency results in a decreased rate of fatty acid beta-oxidation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CPT1A (Carnitine Palmitoyltransferase 1A (Liver)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CPT1A include cpt deficiency, hepatic, type ia and carnitine palmitoyltransferase i deficiency , muscle. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and carnitine O-palmitoyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CRAT.	Catalyzes the transfer of the acyl group of long-chain fatty acid-CoA conjugates onto carnitine, an essential step for the mitochondrial uptake of long-chain fatty acids and their subsequent beta-oxidation in the mitochondrion. Plays an important role in triglyceride metabolism	same
CPNE8	Calcium-dependent membrane-binding proteins may regulate molecular events at the interface of the cell membrane and cytoplasm. This gene is one of several genes that encode a calcium-dependent protein containing two N-terminal type II C2 domains and an integrin A domain-like sequence in the C-terminus. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CPNE8 (Copine VIII) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CPNE7.	May function in membrane trafficking. Exhibits calcium-dependent phospholipid binding properties (By similarity).	same
CPNE7	This gene encodes a member of the copine family, which is composed of calcium-dependent membrane-binding proteins. The gene product contains two N-terminal C2 domains and one von Willebrand factor A domain. The encoded protein may be involved in membrane trafficking. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]	CPNE7 (Copine VII) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is CPNE2.	May function in membrane trafficking. Exhibits calcium-dependent phospholipid binding properties (By similarity).	same
CPT1B	The protein encoded by this gene, a member of the carnitine/choline acetyltransferase family, is the rate-controlling enzyme of the long-chain fatty acid beta-oxidation pathway in muscle mitochondria. This enzyme is required for the net transport of long-chain fatty acyl-CoAs from the cytoplasm into the mitochondria. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene, and read-through transcripts are expressed from the upstream locus that include exons from this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009]	CPT1B (Carnitine Palmitoyltransferase 1B (Muscle)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CPT1B include visceral steatosis and carnitine palmitoyltransferase ii deficiency. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include carnitine O-palmitoyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CRAT.	empty	same
CPOX	The protein encoded by this gene is the sixth enzyme of the heme biosynthetic pathway. The encoded enzyme is soluble and found in the intermembrane space of mitochondria. This enzyme catalyzes the stepwise oxidative decarboxylation of coproporphyrinogen III to protoporphyrinogen IX, a precursor of heme. Defects in this gene are a cause of hereditary coproporphyria (HCP).[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]	CPOX (Coproporphyrinogen Oxidase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CPOX include coproporphyria and prostate disease. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and coproporphyrinogen oxidase activity.	Involved in the heme biosynthesis. Catalyzes the aerobic oxidative decarboxylation of propionate groups of rings A and B of coproporphyrinogen-III to yield the vinyl groups in protoporphyrinogen-IX	same
CPSF2	empty	CPSF2 (Cleavage And Polyadenylation Specific Factor 2, 100kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CPSF2 include rift valley fever. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and mRNA Splicing - Major Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and hydrolase activity.	Component of the cleavage and polyadenylation specificity factor (CPSF) complex that play a key role in pre-mRNA 3-end formation, recognizing the AAUAAA signal sequence and interacting with poly(A) polymerase and other factors to bring about cleavage and poly(A) addition. Involved in the histone 3 end pre-mRNA processing.	same
CPT1C	This gene encodes a member of the carnitine/choline acetyltransferase family. The encoded protein regulates the beta-oxidation and transport of long-chain fatty acids into mitochondria, and may play a role in the regulation of feeding behavior and whole-body energy homeostasis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple protein isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]	CPT1C (Carnitine Palmitoyltransferase 1C) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are AMPK Enzyme Complex Pathway and FOXA2 and FOXA3 transcription factor networks. GO annotations related to this gene include carnitine O-palmitoyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CRAT.	empty	same
CPT2	The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear protein which is transported to the mitochondrial inner membrane. Together with carnitine palmitoyltransferase I, the encoded protein oxidizes long-chain fatty acids in the mitochondria. Defects in this gene are associated with mitochondrial long-chain fatty-acid (LCFA) oxidation disorders. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CPT2 (Carnitine Palmitoyltransferase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CPT2 include myopathy due to cpt ii deficiency and cpt deficiency, hepatic, type ii. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include carnitine O-palmitoyltransferase activity.	empty	same
CPVL	The protein encoded by this gene is a carboxypeptidase and bears strong sequence similarity to serine carboxypeptidases. Carboxypeptidases are a large class of proteases that act to cleave a single amino acid from the carboxy termini of proteins or peptides. The exact function of this protein, however, has not been determined. At least two alternatively spliced transcripts which encode the same protein have been observed. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CPVL (Carboxypeptidase, Vitellogenic-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include serine-type carboxypeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CTSA.	May be involved in the digestion of phagocytosed particles in the lysosome, participation in an inflammatory protease cascade, and trimming of peptides for antigen presentation	same
CPXCR1	This gene is one of several genes identified in a region of the X chromosome associated with an X-linked cleft palate (CPX) disorder. The encoded protein contains a motif similar to a motif found in zinc-finger proteins. Mutation analysis of this gene has not revealed any mutation which causes the CPX disorder. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]	CPXCR1 (CPX Chromosome Region, Candidate 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CPXCR1 include x-linked cleft palate and ankyloglossia.	empty	same
CPSF3	This gene encodes a member of the metallo-beta-lactamase family. The encoded protein is a 73kDa subunit of the cleavage and polyadenylation specificity factor and functions as an endonuclease that recognizes the pre-mRNA 3'-cleavage site AAUAAA prior to polyadenylation. It also cleaves after the pre-mRNA sequence ACCCA during histone 3'-end pre-mRNA processing. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2012]	CPSF3 (Cleavage And Polyadenylation Specific Factor 3, 73kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and mRNA Splicing - Major Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and endoribonuclease activity. An important paralog of this gene is CPSF3L.	Component of the cleavage and polyadenylation specificity factor (CPSF) complex that play a key role in pre-mRNA 3-end formation, recognizing the AAUAAA signal sequence and interacting with poly(A) polymerase and other factors to bring about cleavage and poly(A) addition. Has endonuclease activity, and functions as mRNA 3-end-processing endonuclease. Also involved in the histone 3-end pre-mRNA processing. U7 snRNP-dependent protein that induces both the 3-endoribonucleolytic cleavage of histone pre-mRNAs and acts as a 5 to 3 exonuclease for degrading the subsequent downstream cleavage product (DCP) of mature histone mRNAs. Cleavage occurs after the 5-ACCCA-3 sequence in the histone pre-mRNA leaving a 3hydroxyl group on the upstream fragment containing the stem loop (SL) and 5 phosphate on the downstream cleavage product (DCP) starting with CU nucleotides. The U7-dependent 5 to 3 exonuclease activity is processive and degrades the DCP RNA substrate even after complete removal of the U7-binding site. Binds to the downstream cleavage product (DCP) of histone pre-mRNAs and the cleaved DCP RNA substrate in a U7 snRNP dependent manner.	same
CPXM2	empty	CPXM2 (Carboxypeptidase X (M14 Family), Member 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include metallocarboxypeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CPN1.	May be involved in cell-cell interactions	same
CPXM1	This gene likely encodes a member of the carboxypeptidase family of proteins. Cloning of a comparable locus in mouse indicates that the encoded protein contains a discoidin domain and a carboxypeptidase domain, but the protein appears to lack residues necessary for carboxypeptidase activity.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	CPXM1 (Carboxypeptidase X (M14 Family), Member 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include metallocarboxypeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CPN1.	May be involved in cell-cell interactions. No carboxypeptidase activity was found yet (By similarity).	same
CPSF4	Inhibition of the nuclear export of poly(A)-containing mRNAs caused by the influenza A virus NS1 protein requires its effector domain. The NS1 effector domain functionally interacts with the cellular 30 kDa subunit of cleavage and polyadenylation specific factor 4, an essential component of the 3' end processing machinery of cellular pre-mRNAs. In influenza virus-infected cells, the NS1 protein is physically associated with cleavage and polyadenylation specific factor 4, 30kD subunit. Binding of the NS1 protein to the 30 kDa protein in vitro prevents CPSF binding to the RNA substrate and inhibits 3' end cleavage and polyadenylation of host pre-mRNAs. Thus the NS1 protein selectively inhibits the nuclear export of cellular, and not viral, mRNAs. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CPSF4 (Cleavage And Polyadenylation Specific Factor 4, 30kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CPSF4 include influenza. Among its related pathways are Disease and mRNA Splicing - Major Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is ZC3H3.	Component of the cleavage and polyadenylation specificity factor (CPSF) complex that play a key role in pre-mRNA 3-end formation, recognizing the AAUAAA signal sequence and interacting with poly(A) polymerase and other factors to bring about cleavage and poly(A) addition. CPSF4 binds RNA polymers with a preference for poly(U).	same
CP	The protein encoded by this gene is a metalloprotein that binds most of the copper in plasma and is involved in the peroxidation of Fe(II)transferrin to Fe(III) transferrin. Mutations in this gene cause aceruloplasminemia, which results in iron accumulation and tissue damage, and is associated with diabetes and neurologic abnormalities. Two transcript variants, one protein-coding and the other not protein-coding, have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]	CP (Ceruloplasmin (Ferroxidase)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CP include cerebellar ataxia and aceruloplasminemia. Among its related pathways are HIF-1-alpha transcription factor network and Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds. GO annotations related to this gene include copper ion binding and ferroxidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is HEPHL1.	Ceruloplasmin is a blue, copper-binding (6-7 atoms per molecule) glycoprotein. It has ferroxidase activity oxidizing Fe(2+) to Fe(3+) without releasing radical oxygen species. It is involved in iron transport across the cell membrane. Provides Cu(2+) ions for the ascorbate-mediated deaminase degradation of the heparan sulfate chains of GPC1. May also play a role in fetal lung development or pulmonary antioxidant defense (By similarity).	same
CR1L	empty	CR1L (Complement Component (3b/4b) Receptor 1-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CSMD3.	empty	same
CR1	This gene is a member of the receptors of complement activation (RCA) family and is located in the 'cluster RCA' region of chromosome 1. The gene encodes a monomeric single-pass type I membrane glycoprotein found on erythrocytes, leukocytes, glomerular podocytes, and splenic follicular dendritic cells. The Knops blood group system is a system of antigens located on this protein. The protein mediates cellular binding to particles and immune complexes that have activated complement. Decreases in expression of this protein and/or mutations in its gene have been associated with gallbladder carcinomas, mesangiocapillary glomerulonephritis, systemic lupus erythematosus and sarcoidosis. Mutations in this gene have also been associated with a reduction in Plasmodium falciparum rosetting, conferring protection against severe malaria. Alternate allele-specific splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. Additional allele specific isoforms, including a secreted form, have been described but have not been fully characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CR1 (Complement Component (3b/4b) Receptor 1 (Knops Blood Group)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CR1 include malaria and diffuse glomerulonephritis. Among its related pathways are Complement and coagulation cascades and Complement and coagulation cascades. GO annotations related to this gene include complement component C3b binding and complement component C4b receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CSMD3.	Mediates cellular binding of particles and immune complexes that have activated complement	same
CPZ	This gene encodes a member of the metallocarboxypeptidase family. This enzyme displays carboxypeptidase activity towards substrates with basic C-terminal residues. It is most active at neutral pH and is inhibited by active site-directed inhibitors of metallocarboxypeptidases. Alternative splicing in the coding region results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CPZ (Carboxypeptidase Z) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CPZ include yaws and sleeping sickness. GO annotations related to this gene include metallocarboxypeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CPN1.	Cleaves substrates with C-terminal arginine residues. Probably modulates the Wnt signaling pathway, by cleaving some undefined protein. May play a role in cleavage during prohormone processing.	same
CRABP1	This gene encodes a specific binding protein for a vitamin A family member and is thought to play an important role in retinoic acid-mediated differentiation and proliferation processes. It is structurally similar to the cellular retinol-binding proteins, but binds only retinoic acid at specific sites within the nucleus, which may contribute to vitamin A-directed differentiation in epithelial tissue. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CRABP1 (Cellular Retinoic Acid Binding Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRABP1 include colorectal cancer. Among its related pathways are Apoptotic Pathways in Synovial Fibroblasts and Visual Cycle in Retinal Rods. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity and retinol binding. An important paralog of this gene is FABP7.	Cytosolic CRABPs may regulate the access of retinoic acid to the nuclear retinoic acid receptors	same
CR2	This gene encodes a membrane protein, which functions as a receptor for Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) binding on B and T lymphocytes. Genetic variations in this gene are associated with susceptibility to systemic lupus erythematosus type 9 (SLEB9). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]	CR2 (Complement Component (3d/Epstein Barr Virus) Receptor 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CR2 include systemic lupus erythematosus 9 and immunodeficiency, common variable, 7. Among its related pathways are Epstein-Barr virus infection and Complement and coagulation cascades. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and complement receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CSMD3.	Receptor for complement C3Dd, for the Epstein-Barr virus on human B-cells and T-cells and for HNRPU. Participates in B lymphocytes activation.	same
ABCB10	The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the MDR/TAP subfamily. Members of the MDR/TAP subfamily are involved in multidrug resistance. The function of this mitochondrial protein is unknown. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ABCB10 (ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family B (MDR/TAP), Member 10) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds and ABC-family proteins mediated transport. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and oligopeptide-transporting ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is TAP1.	May mediate critical mitochondrial transport functions related to heme biosynthesis.	same
CRAT	This gene encodes carnitine acetyltransferase (CRAT), which is a key enzyme in the metabolic pathway in mitochondria, peroxisomes and endoplasmic reticulum. CRAT catalyzes the reversible transfer of acyl groups from an acyl-CoA thioester to carnitine and regulates the ratio of acylCoA/CoA in the subcellular compartments. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]	CRAT (Carnitine O-Acetyltransferase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRAT include carnitine acetyltransferase deficiency and overnutrition. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and carnitine O-acetyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CROT.	Carnitine acetylase is specific for short chain fatty acids. Carnitine acetylase seems to affect the flux through the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex. It may be involved as well in the transport of acetyl-CoA into mitochondria	same
CRAMP1L	empty	CRAMP1L (Crm, Cramped-Like (Drosophila)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include chromatin binding. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000261732.	empty	same
CRBN	This gene encodes a protein related to the Lon protease protein family. In rodents and other mammals this gene product is found in the cytoplasm localized with a calcium channel membrane protein, and is thought to play a role in brain development. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal recessive nonsyndromic mental retardation. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]	CRBN (Cereblon) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRBN include mental retardation, autosomal recessive 2 and distal monosomy 3p. GO annotations related to this gene include ATP-dependent peptidase activity.	Substrate recognition component of a DCX (DDB1-CUL4-X-box) E3 protein ligase complex that mediates the ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of target proteins, such as MEIS2. Normal degradation of key regulatory proteins is required for normal limb outgrowth and expression of the fibroblast growth factor FGF8. May play a role in memory and learning by regulating the assembly and neuronal surface expression of large-conductance calcium-activated potassium channels in brain regions involved in memory and learning via its interaction with KCNT1. Binding of pomalidomide and other thalidomide-related drugs changes the substrate specificity of the human protein, leading to decreased degradation of MEIS2 and other target proteins and increased degradation of MYC, IRF4, IKZF1 and IKZF3.	same
CRB2	empty	CRB2 (Crumbs Family Member 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRB2 include focal segmental glomerulosclerosis 9 and ventriculomegaly with cystic kidney disease. Among its related pathways are Hippo signaling pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is NOTCH2.	May play a role in polarized cells morphogenesis	same
CRABP2	This gene encodes a member of the retinoic acid (RA, a form of vitamin A) binding protein family and lipocalin/cytosolic fatty-acid binding protein family. The protein is a cytosol-to-nuclear shuttling protein, which facilitates RA binding to its cognate receptor complex and transfer to the nucleus. It is involved in the retinoid signaling pathway, and is associated with increased circulating low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]	CRABP2 (Cellular Retinoic Acid Binding Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Apoptotic Pathways in Synovial Fibroblasts and Vitamin A and carotenoid metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity and retinol binding. An important paralog of this gene is FABP7.	Transports retinoic acid to the nucleus. Regulates the access of retinoic acid to the nuclear retinoic acid receptors	same
CRB1	This gene encodes a protein which is similar to the Drosophila crumbs protein and localizes to the inner segment of mammalian photoreceptors. In Drosophila crumbs localizes to the stalk of the fly photoreceptor and may be a component of the molecular scaffold that controls proper development of polarity in the eye. Mutations in this gene are associated with a severe form of retinitis pigmentosa, RP12, and with Leber congenital amaurosis. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants, some protein coding and some non-protein coding.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]	CRB1 (Crumbs Family Member 1, Photoreceptor Morphogenesis Associated) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRB1 include leber congenital amaurosis 8 and pigmented paravenous chorioretinal atrophy. Among its related pathways are Hippo signaling pathway and Sertoli-Sertoli Cell Junction Dynamics. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is NOTCH2.	Plays a role in photoreceptor morphogenesis in the retina. May maintain cell polarization and adhesion	same
CRB3	This gene encodes a member of the Crumbs family of proteins. This protein may play a role in epithelial cell polarity and is associated with tight junctions at the apical surface of epithelial cells. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CRB3 (Crumbs Family Member 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRB3 include leber congenital amaurosis. Among its related pathways are Cell junction organization and Cell junction organization. GO annotations related to this gene include protein domain specific binding and SH3 domain binding.	Involved in the establishment of cell polarity in mammalian epithelial cells. Regulates the morphogenesis of tight junctions.	same
CREB3L2	This gene encodes a member of the oasis bZIP transcription factor family. Members of this family can dimerize but form homodimers only. The encoded protein is a transcriptional activator. Translocations between this gene on chromosome 7 and the gene fused in sarcoma on chromosome 16 can be found in some tumors. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	CREB3L2 (CAMP Responsive Element Binding Protein 3-Like 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CREB3L2 include myxofibrosarcoma. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Glioma. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and transcription regulatory region DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is CREB3L3.	Transcriptional activator which is processed and activated during endoplasmic reticulum stress late phase. Binds to the cAMP response element (CRE) and activates transcription through CRE. Regulates the transcription of unfolded protein response target genes, preventing accumulation of unfolded proteins in damaged neurons. Also regulates the expression of SEC23A, accelerating protein trafficking from the ER to the Golgi thereby playing a key role in chondrocyte differentiation and formation of epiphyseal cartilage (By similarity).	same
CRCP	This gene encodes a membrane protein that functions as part of a receptor complex for a small neuropeptide that increases intracellular cAMP levels. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CRCP (CGRP Receptor Component) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Myometrial Relaxation and Contraction Pathways. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleotide binding and calcitonin receptor activity.	DNA-dependent RNA polymerase catalyzes the transcription of DNA into RNA using the four ribonucleoside triphosphates as substrates. Specific peripheric component of RNA polymerase III which synthesizes small RNAs, such as 5S rRNA and tRNAs. Plays a key role in sensing and limiting infection by intracellular bacteria and DNA viruses. Acts as nuclear and cytosolic DNA sensor involved in innate immune response. Can sense non-self dsDNA that serves as template for transcription into dsRNA. The non-self RNA polymerase III transcripts induce type I interferon and NF- Kappa-B through the RIG-I pathway (By similarity).	same
CREB3L3	This gene encodes a member of the basic-leucine zipper family and the AMP-dependent transcription factor family. The encoded protein is localized to the endoplasmic reticulum and acts as a transcription factor activated by cyclic AMP stimulation. The encoded protein binds the cyclic AMP response element (CRE) and the box-B element and has been linked to acute inflammatory response, hepatocellular carcinoma, triglyceride metabolism, and hepcidin expression. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]	CREB3L3 (CAMP Responsive Element Binding Protein 3-Like 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CREB3L3 include hyperchylomicronemia, late-onset and hepatocellular carcinoma. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Glioma. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and sequence-specific DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is CREB3L4.	Transcription factor that may act during endoplasmic reticulum stress by activating unfolded protein response target genes. Activated in response to cAMP stimulation. In vitro, binds to the cAMP response element (CRE) and box-B element. Activates transcription through box-B element. Activates transcription through CRE (By similarity). Seems to function synergistically with ATF6. In acute inflammatory response, may activate expression of acute phase response (APR) genes. May be involved in growth suppression.	same
CREB3L4	This gene encodes a CREB (cAMP responsive element binding) protein with a transmembrane domain which localizes it to the ER membrane. The encoded protein is a transcriptional activator which contains a dimerization domain, and this protein may function in a number of processing pathways including protein processing. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	CREB3L4 (CAMP Responsive Element Binding Protein 3-Like 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and GPCR Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and sequence-specific DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is CREB3L3.	Transcriptional activator that may play a role in the unfolded protein response. Binds to the UPR element (UPRE) but not to CRE element. Preferentially binds DNA with to the consensus sequence 5-T[GT]ACGT[GA][GT]-3 and has transcriptional activation activity from UPRE. Binds to NF-kappa-B site and has transcriptional activation activity from NF-kappa-B-containing regulatory elements (By similarity).	same
CREB1	This gene encodes a transcription factor that is a member of the leucine zipper family of DNA binding proteins. This protein binds as a homodimer to the cAMP-responsive element, an octameric palindrome. The protein is phosphorylated by several protein kinases, and induces transcription of genes in response to hormonal stimulation of the cAMP pathway. Alternate splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CREB1 (CAMP Responsive Element Binding Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CREB1 include histiocytoma, angiomatoid fibrous, somatic and diabetic encephalopathy. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and PI-3K cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and transcription cofactor activity. An important paralog of this gene is ATF1.	Phosphorylation-dependent transcription factor that stimulates transcription upon binding to the DNA cAMP response element (CRE), a sequence present in many viral and cellular promoters. Transcription activation is enhanced by the TORC coactivators which act independently of Ser-133 phosphorylation. Involved in different cellular processes including the synchronization of circadian rhythmicity and the differentiation of adipose cells	same
CREB5	The product of this gene belongs to the CRE (cAMP response element)-binding protein family. Members of this family contain zinc-finger and bZIP DNA-binding domains. The encoded protein specifically binds to CRE as a homodimer or a heterodimer with c-Jun or CRE-BP1, and functions as a CRE-dependent trans-activator. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CREB5 (CAMP Responsive Element Binding Protein 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Glioma. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and RNA polymerase II core promoter proximal region sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity involved in positive regulation of transcription. An important paralog of this gene is ATF7.	Binds to the cAMP response element and activates transcription.	same
CREBL2	cAMP response element (CRE)-binding protein-like-2 (CREBL2) was identified in a search to find genes in a commonly deleted region on chromosome 12p13 flanked by ETV6 and CDKN1B genes, frequently associated with hematopoietic malignancies, as well as breast, non-small-cell lung and ovarian cancers. CREBL2 shares a 41% identity with CRE-binding protein (CREB) over a 48-base long region which encodes the bZip domain of CREB. The bZip domain consists of about 30 amino acids rich in basic residues involved in DNA binding, followed by a leucine zipper motif involved in protein dimerization. This suggests that CREBL2 encodes a protein with DNA binding capabilities. The occurance of CREBL2 deletion in malignancy suggests that CREBL2 may act as a tumor suppressor gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CREBL2 (CAMP Responsive Element Binding Protein-Like 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and sequence-specific DNA binding.	Probable regulator of CREB1 transcriptional activity which is involved in adipose cells differentiation. May also play a regulatory role in the cell cycle. Identification in a chromosomal region frequently deleted in various cancers suggests that it might act as a tumor suppressor.	same
CREBZF	empty	CREBZF (CREB/ATF BZIP Transcription Factor) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and identical protein binding.	Strongly activates transcription when bound to HCFC1. Suppresses the expression of HSV proteins in cells infected with the virus in a HCFC1-dependent manner. Also suppresses the HCFC1-dependent transcriptional activation by CREB3 and reduces the amount of CREB3 in the cell. Able to down-regulate expression of some cellular genes in CREBZF-expressing cells.	same
CRADD	The protein encoded by this gene is a death domain (CARD/DD)-containing protein and has been shown to induce cell apoptosis. Through its CARD domain, this protein interacts with, and thus recruits, caspase 2/ICH1 to the cell death signal transduction complex that includes tumor necrosis factor receptor 1 (TNFR1A), RIPK1/RIP kinase, and numbers of other CARD domain-containing proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CRADD (CASP2 And RIPK1 Domain Containing Adaptor With Death Domain) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRADD include mental retardation, autosomal recessive 34 and autosomal recessive non-syndromic intellectual disability. Among its related pathways are Apoptosis and survival Caspase cascade and TWEAK Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protease binding and death domain binding.	Apoptotic adaptor molecule specific for caspase-2 and FASL/TNF receptor-interacting protein RIP. In the presence of RIP and TRADD, CRADD recruits caspase-2 to the TNFR-1 signalling complex	same
CRELD1	This gene encodes a member of a subfamily of epidermal growth factor-related proteins. The encoded protein is characterized by a cysteine-rich with epidermal growth factor-like domain. This protein may function as a cell adhesion molecule. Mutations in this gene are the cause of atrioventricular septal defect. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]	CRELD1 (Cysteine-Rich With EGF-Like Domains 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRELD1 include atrioventricular septal defect 2 and complete atrioventricular canal - fallot tetralogy. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CRELD2.	empty	same
CREM	This gene encodes a bZIP transcription factor that binds to the cAMP responsive element found in many viral and cellular promoters. It is an important component of cAMP-mediated signal transduction during the spermatogenetic cycle, as well as other complex processes. Alternative promoter and translation initiation site usage allows this gene to exert spatial and temporal specificity to cAMP responsiveness. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding several different isoforms have been found for this gene, with some of them functioning as activators and some as repressors of transcription. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CREM (CAMP Responsive Element Modulator) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and cAMP response element binding protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is ATF1.	Transcriptional regulator that binds the cAMP response element (CRE), a sequence present in many viral and cellular promoters. Isoforms are either transcriptional activators or repressors. Plays a role in spermatogenesis and is involved in spermatid maturation (PubMed:10373550).	same
CREB3	This gene encodes a transcription factor that is a member of the leucine zipper family of DNA binding proteins. This protein binds to the cAMP-response element and regulates cell proliferation. The protein interacts with host cell factor C1, which also associates with the herpes simplex virus (HSV) protein VP16 that induces transcription of HSV immediate-early genes. This protein and VP16 both bind to the same site on host cell factor C1. It is thought that the interaction between this protein and host cell factor C1 plays a role in the establishment of latency during HSV infection. This protein also plays a role in leukocyte migration, tumor suppression, and endoplasmic reticulum stress-associated protein degradation. Additional transcript variants have been identified, but their biological validity has not been determined.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]	CREB3 (CAMP Responsive Element Binding Protein 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CREB3 include human t-cell leukemia virus type 1 and herpes simplex. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and GPCR Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and sequence-specific DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is CREB3L3.	Endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-bound transcription factor that plays a role in the unfolded protein response (UPR). Involved in cell proliferation and migration, tumor suppression and inflammatory gene expression. Plays also a role in the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) virus protein expression and in the herpes simplex virus-1 (HSV-1) latent infection and reactivation from latency. Isoform 2 plays a role in the unfolded protein response (UPR). Isoform 2 acts as a positive regulator of LKN-1/CCL15-induced chemotaxis signaling of leukocyte cell migration. Isoform 2 may play a role as a cellular tumor suppressor that is targeted by the hepatitis C virus (HSV) core protein. Isoform 2 represses the VP16-mediated transactivation of immediate early genes of the HSV-1 virus by sequestring host cell factor-1 HCFC1 in the ER membrane of sensory neurons, thereby preventing the initiation of the replicative cascade leading to latent infection. Isoform 3 functions as a negative transcriptional regulator in ligand-induced transcriptional activation of the glucocorticoid receptor NR3C1 by recruiting and activating histone deacetylases (HDAC1, HDAC2 and HDAC6). Isoform 3 decreases the acetylation level of histone H4. Isoform 3 does not promote the chemotactic activity of leukocyte cells	same
CRELD2	empty	CRELD2 (Cysteine-Rich With EGF-Like Domains 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRELD2 include cannabis dependence and multiple epiphyseal dysplasia. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CRELD1.	May regulate transport of alpha4-beta2 neuronal acetylcholine receptor	same
CRHR2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the G-protein coupled receptor 2 family, and the subfamily of corticotropin releasing hormone receptor. This receptor shows high affinity for corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH), and also binds CRH-related peptides such as urocortin. CRH is synthesized in the hypothalamus, and plays an important role in coordinating the endocrine, autonomic, and behavioral responses to stress and immune challenge. Studies in mice suggest that this receptor maybe involved in mediating cardiovascular homeostasis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]	CRHR2 (Corticotropin Releasing Hormone Receptor 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include hormone activity and corticotrophin-releasing factor receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is VIPR2.	G-protein coupled receptor for CRH (corticotropin-releasing factor), UCN (urocortin), UCN2 and UCN3. Has high affinity for UCN. Ligand binding causes a conformation change that triggers signaling via guanine nucleotide-binding proteins (G proteins) and down-stream effectors, such as adenylate cyclase. Promotes the activation of adenylate cyclase, leading to increased intracellular cAMP levels	same
CREBBP	This gene is ubiquitously expressed and is involved in the transcriptional coactivation of many different transcription factors. First isolated as a nuclear protein that binds to cAMP-response element binding protein (CREB), this gene is now known to play critical roles in embryonic development, growth control, and homeostasis by coupling chromatin remodeling to transcription factor recognition. The protein encoded by this gene has intrinsic histone acetyltransferase activity and also acts as a scaffold to stabilize additional protein interactions with the transcription complex. This protein acetylates both histone and non-histone proteins. This protein shares regions of very high sequence similarity with protein p300 in its bromodomain, cysteine-histidine-rich regions, and histone acetyltransferase domain. Mutations in this gene cause Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome (RTS). Chromosomal translocations involving this gene have been associated with acute myeloid leukemia. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009]	CREBBP (CREB Binding Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CREBBP include rubinstein-taybi syndrome and crebbp-related rubinstein-taybi syndrome. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and transcription factor binding. An important paralog of this gene is BRD4.	Acetylates histones, giving a specific tag for transcriptional activation. Also acetylates non-histone proteins, like NCOA3 and FOXO1. Binds specifically to phosphorylated CREB and enhances its transcriptional activity toward cAMP-responsive genes. Acts as a coactivator of ALX1 in the presence of EP300. Acts as a circadian transcriptional coactivator which enhances the activity of the circadian transcriptional activators: NPAS2-ARNTL/BMAL1 and CLOCK-ARNTL/BMAL1 heterodimers. Acetylates PCNA; acetylation promotes removal of chromatin-bound PCNA and its degradation during nucleotide excision repair (NER) (PubMed:24939902).	same
CRCT1	empty	CRCT1 (Cysteine-Rich C-Terminal 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CRHR1	This gene encodes a G-protein coupled receptor that binds neuropeptides of the corticotropin releasing hormone family that are major regulators of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal pathway. The encoded protein is essential for the activation of signal transduction pathways that regulate diverse physiological processes including stress, reproduction, immune response and obesity. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Readthrough transcription also exists between this gene and upstream GeneID:401884 (ADP-ribosylation factor 3 pseudogene), and the readthrough transcripts encode isoforms that share similarity with the products of this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2014]	CRHR1 (Corticotropin Releasing Hormone Receptor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRHR1 include generalized anxiety disorder and obesity. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include protein complex binding and corticotrophin-releasing factor receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is VIPR2.	G-protein coupled receptor for CRH (corticotropin-releasing factor) and UCN (urocortin). Has high affinity for CRH and UCN. Ligand binding causes a conformation change that triggers signaling via guanine nucleotide-binding proteins (G proteins) and down-stream effectors, such as adenylate cyclase. Promotes the activation of adenylate cyclase, leading to increased intracellular cAMP levels. Inhibits the activity of the calcium channel CACNA1H. Required for normal embryonic development of the adrenal gland and for normal hormonal responses to stress. Plays a role in the response to anxiogenic stimuli.	same
CRIP2	This gene encodes a putative transcription factor with two LIM zinc-binding domains. The encoded protein may participate in the differentiation of smooth muscle tissue. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012]	CRIP2 (Cysteine-Rich Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CSRP1.	empty	same
CRIP3	empty	CRIP3 (Cysteine-Rich Protein 3) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CSRP1.	empty	same
CRIPAK	CRIPAK is a negative regulator of PAK1 (MIM 602590) that is upregulated by estrogen (Talukder et al., 2006 [PubMed 16278681]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CRIPAK (Cysteine-Rich PAK1 Inhibitor) is a Protein Coding gene.	Negative regulator of PAK1. It has been suggested that the lost of CRIPAK in breast tumors might contribute to hormonal independence.	same
CRIPT	This gene encodes a protein that binds to the PDZ3 peptide recognition domain. The encoded protein may modulates protein interactions with the cytoskeleton. A mutation in this gene resulted in short stature with microcephaly and distinctive facies. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2014]	CRIPT (Cysteine-Rich PDZ-Binding Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRIPT include short stature with microcephaly and distinctive facies and growth hormone deficiency, isolated, type ia. GO annotations related to this gene include protein complex binding and PDZ domain binding.	Involved in the cytoskeletal anchoring of DLG4 in excitatory synapses.	same
CREB3L1	The protein encoded by this gene is normally found in the membrane of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). However, upon stress to the ER, the encoded protein is cleaved and the released cytoplasmic transcription factor domain translocates to the nucleus. There it activates the transcription of target genes by binding to box-B elements. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2013]	CREB3L1 (CAMP Responsive Element Binding Protein 3-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CREB3L1 include myxofibrosarcoma and small cell osteogenic sarcoma. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Glioma. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding and RNA polymerase II core promoter proximal region sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity involved in positive regulation of transcription. An important paralog of this gene is CREB3L3.	Transcription factor that acts during endoplasmic reticulum stress by activating unfolded protein response target genes. Specifically involved in ER-stress response in astrocytes in the central nervous system (By similartity). May play a role in gliosis. In vitro, binds to box-B element, cAMP response element (CRE) and CRE-like sequences, and activates transcription through box-B element but not through CRE (By similarity).	same
CRISP1	Fertilization consists of a sequence of specific cell-cell interactions culminating in the fusion of the sperm and egg plasma membranes. Recognition, binding, and fusion occur through the interaction of complementary molecules that are localized to specific domains of the sperm and egg plasma membranes. In the sperm, the postacrosomal region or equatorial segment is involved in sperm-egg plasma membrane fusion. The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the cysteine-rich secretory protein (CRISP) family. It is expressed in the epididymis, is secreted into the epididymal lumen, and binds to the postacrosomal region of the sperm head, where it plays a role in sperm-egg fusion. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]	CRISP1 (Cysteine-Rich Secretory Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CLEC18B.	May have a role in sperm-egg fusion and maturation	same
CRH	Corticotropin-releasing hormone is secreted by the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus in response to stress. Marked reduction in this protein has been observed in association with Alzheimer disease and autosomal recessive hypothalamic corticotropin deficiency has multiple and potentially fatal metabolic consequences including hypoglycemia and hepatitis. In addition to production in the hypothalamus, this protein is also synthesized in peripheral tissues, such as T lymphocytes and is highly expressed in the placenta. In the placenta it is a marker that determines the length of gestation and the timing of parturition and delivery. A rapid increase in circulating levels of the hormone occurs at the onset of parturition, suggesting that, in addition to its metabolic functions, this protein may act as a trigger for parturition. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]	CRH (Corticotropin Releasing Hormone) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRH include autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy and crh-related related nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy, autosomal dominant. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and neuropeptide hormone activity.	This hormone from hypothalamus regulates the release of corticotropin from pituitary gland	same
CRISP2	empty	CRISP2 (Cysteine-Rich Secretory Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRISP2 include epididymitis and orchitis. Among its related pathways are p53 Signaling. An important paralog of this gene is CLEC18B.	May regulate some ion channels activity and therebye regulate calcium fluxes during sperm capacitation.	same
CREG1	The adenovirus E1A protein both activates and represses gene expression to promote cellular proliferation and inhibit differentiation. The protein encoded by this gene antagonizes transcriptional activation and cellular transformation by E1A. This protein shares limited sequence similarity with E1A and binds both the general transcription factor TBP and the tumor suppressor pRb in vitro. This gene may contribute to the transcriptional control of cell growth and differentiation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CREG1 (Cellular Repressor Of E1A-Stimulated Genes 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Senescence and Autophagy. GO annotations related to this gene include transcription factor binding and oxidoreductase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CREG2.	May contribute to the transcriptional control of cell growth and differentiation. Antagonizes transcriptional activation and cellular transformation by the adenovirus E1A protein. The transcriptional control activity of cell growth requires interaction with IGF2R.	same
CRKL	This gene encodes a protein kinase containing SH2 and SH3 (src homology) domains which has been shown to activate the RAS and JUN kinase signaling pathways and transform fibroblasts in a RAS-dependent fashion. It is a substrate of the BCR-ABL tyrosine kinase, plays a role in fibroblast transformation by BCR-ABL, and may be oncogenic.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]	CRKL (V-Crk Avian Sarcoma Virus CT10 Oncogene Homolog-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRKL include distal 22q11.2 microdeletion syndrome. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include signal transducer activity and SH3/SH2 adaptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CRK.	May mediate the transduction of intracellular signals	same
CRISPLD1	empty	CRISPLD1 (Cysteine-Rich Secretory Protein LCCL Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CLEC18B.	empty	same
CREG2	empty	CREG2 (Cellular Repressor Of E1A-Stimulated Genes 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include oxidoreductase activity and FMN binding. An important paralog of this gene is CREG1.	empty	same
CRLF1	This gene encodes a member of the cytokine type I receptor family. The protein forms a secreted complex with cardiotrophin-like cytokine factor 1 and acts on cells expressing ciliary neurotrophic factor receptors. The complex can promote survival of neuronal cells. Mutations in this gene result in Crisponi syndrome and cold-induced sweating syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]	CRLF1 (Cytokine Receptor-Like Factor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRLF1 include cold-induced sweating syndrome 1 and cold-induced sweating syndrome including crisponi syndrome. Among its related pathways are Translation Insulin regulation of translation. GO annotations related to this gene include protein heterodimerization activity and cytokine activity. An important paralog of this gene is GHR.	Cytokine receptor subunit, possibly playing a regulatory role in the immune system and during fetal development. May be involved in nervous system development	same
CRK	This gene encodes a member of an adapter protein family that binds to several tyrosine-phosphorylated proteins. The product of this gene has several SH2 and SH3 domains (src-homology domains) and is involved in several signaling pathways, recruiting cytoplasmic proteins in the vicinity of tyrosine kinase through SH2-phosphotyrosine interaction. The N-terminal SH2 domain of this protein functions as a positive regulator of transformation whereas the C-terminal SH3 domain functions as a negative regulator of transformation. Two alternative transcripts encoding different isoforms with distinct biological activity have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CRK (V-Crk Avian Sarcoma Virus CT10 Oncogene Homolog) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRK include miller-dieker syndrome. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include SH3/SH2 adaptor activity and ephrin receptor binding. An important paralog of this gene is CRKL.	The Crk-I and Crk-II forms differ in their biological activities. Crk-II has less transforming activity than Crk-I. Crk-II mediates attachment-induced MAPK8 activation, membrane ruffling and cell motility in a Rac-dependent manner. Involved in phagocytosis of apoptotic cells and cell motility via its interaction with DOCK1 and DOCK4. May regulate the EFNA5-EPHA3 signaling.	same
CRLF3	This gene encodes a cytokine receptor-like factor that may negatively regulate cell cycle progression at the G0/G1 phase. Studies of the related rat protein suggest that it may regulate neuronal morphology and synaptic vesicle biogenesis. This gene is one of several genes located in the neurofibromatosis type I tumor suppressor region on the q arm of chromosome 17, a region that is subject to microdeletions, duplications, chromosomal breaks and rearrangements. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 2 and 5. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012]	CRLF3 (Cytokine Receptor-Like Factor 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRLF3 include neurofibromatosis.	May play a role in the negative regulation of cell cycle progression.	same
CRHBP	Corticotropin-releasing hormone is a potent stimulator of synthesis and secretion of preopiomelanocortin-derived peptides. Although CRH concentrations in the human peripheral circulation are normally low, they increase throughout pregnancy and fall rapidly after parturition. Maternal plasma CRH probably originates from the placenta. Human plasma contains a CRH-binding protein which inactivates CRH and which may prevent inappropriate pituitary-adrenal stimulation in pregnancy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CRHBP (Corticotropin Releasing Hormone Binding Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Corticotropin-releasing hormone. GO annotations related to this gene include peptide binding and corticotropin-releasing hormone binding.	Binds CRF and inactivates it. May prevent inappropriate pituitary-adrenal stimulation in pregnancy	same
CRMP1	This gene encodes a member of a family of cytosolic phosphoproteins expressed exclusively in the nervous system. The encoded protein is thought to be a part of the semaphorin signal transduction pathway implicated in semaphorin-induced growth cone collapse during neural development. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CRMP1 (Collapsin Response Mediator Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are L1CAM interactions and L1CAM interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrolase activity, acting on carbon-nitrogen (but not peptide) bonds, in cyclic amides. An important paralog of this gene is DPYSL3.	Necessary for signaling by class 3 semaphorins and subsequent remodeling of the cytoskeleton. Plays a role in axon guidance, invasive growth and cell migration. May participate in cytokinesis.	same
CRNKL1	The crooked neck (crn) gene of Drosophila is essential for embryogenesis and is thought to be involved in cell cycle progression and pre-mRNA splicing. A protein encoded by this human locus has been found to localize to pre-mRNA splicing complexes in the nucleus and is necessary for pre-mRNA splicing. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]	CRNKL1 (Crooked Neck Pre-MRNA Splicing Factor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Spliceosome. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding.	Involved in pre-mRNA splicing process	same
CRIM1	This gene encodes a transmembrane protein containing six cysteine-rich repeat domains and an insulin-like growth factor-binding domain. The encoded protein may play a role in tissue development though interactions with members of the transforming growth factor beta family, such as bone morphogenetic proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]	CRIM1 (Cysteine Rich Transmembrane BMP Regulator 1 (Chordin-Like)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include serine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity and insulin-like growth factor-activated receptor activity.	May play a role in CNS development by interacting with growth factors implicated in motor neuron differentiation and survival. May play a role in capillary formation and maintenance during angiogenesis. Modulates BMP activity by affecting its processing and delivery to the cell surface.	same
CRLS1	empty	CRLS1 (Cardiolipin Synthase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRLS1 include catastrophic antiphospholipid syndrome. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include phosphotransferase activity, for other substituted phosphate groups.	Catalyzes the synthesis of cardiolipin (CL) (diphosphatidylglycerol) by specifically transferring a phosphatidyl group from CDP-diacylglycerol to phosphatidylglycerol (PG). CL is a key phospholipid in mitochondrial membranes and plays important roles in maintaining the functional integrity and dynamics of mitochondria under both optimal and stress conditions.	same
CRIP1	Cysteine-rich intestinal protein (CRIP) belongs to the LIM/double zinc finger protein family, members of which include cysteine- and glycine-rich protein-1 (CSRP1; MIM 123876), rhombotin-1 (RBTN1; MIM 186921), rhombotin-2 (RBTN2; MIM 180385), and rhombotin-3 (RBTN3; MIM 180386). CRIP may be involved in intestinal zinc transport (Hempe and Cousins, 1991 [PubMed 1946385]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CRIP1 (Cysteine-Rich Protein 1 (Intestinal)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include DNA binding, bending and AT DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is CSRP1.	Seems to have a role in zinc absorption and may function as an intracellular zinc transport protein	same
CRNN	This gene encodes a member of the "fused gene" family of proteins, which contain N-terminus EF-hand domains and multiple tandem peptide repeats. The encoded protein contains two EF-hand Ca2+ binding domains in its N-terminus and two glutamine- and threonine-rich 60 amino acid repeats in its C-terminus. This gene, also known as squamous epithelial heat shock protein 53, may play a role in the mucosal/epithelial immune response and epidermal differentiation. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]	CRNN (Cornulin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRNN include polyclonal hypergammaglobulinemia and oral squamous cell carcinoma. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is TCHHL1.	Survival factor that participates in the clonogenicity of squamous esophageal epithelium cell lines, attenuates deoxycholic acid (DCA)-induced apoptotic cell death and release of calcium. When overexpressed in oral squamous carcinom cell lines, regulates negatively cell proliferation by the induction of G1 arrest.	same
CRTAC1	This gene encodes a glycosylated extracellular matrix protein that is found in the interterritorial matrix of articular deep zone cartilage. This protein is used as a marker to distinguish chondrocytes from osteoblasts and mesenchymal stem cells in culture. The presence of FG-GAP motifs and an RGD integrin-binding motif suggests that this protein may be involved in cell-cell or cell-matrix interactions. Copy number alterations in this gene have been observed in neurofibromatosis type 1-associated glomus tumors. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	CRTAC1 (Cartilage Acidic Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRTAC1 include botulism and neurofibromatosis. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding.	empty	same
CRTAM	The CRTAM gene is upregulated in CD4 (see MIM 186940)-positive and CD8 (see CD8A; MIM 186910)-positive T cells and encodes a type I transmembrane protein with V and C1-like Ig domains (Yeh et al., 2008 [PubMed 18329370]).[supplied by OMIM, Feb 2009]	CRTAM (Cytotoxic And Regulatory T Cell Molecule) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Immunoregulatory interactions between a Lymphoid and a non-Lymphoid cell. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding. An important paralog of this gene is CADM3.	Interaction with CADM1 promotes natural killer (NK) cell cytotoxicity and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) secretion by CD8+ cells in vitro as well as NK cell-mediated rejection of tumors expressing CADM3 in vivo.	same
CROCC	empty	CROCC (Ciliary Rootlet Coiled-Coil, Rootletin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CROCC include medulloblastoma. GO annotations related to this gene include structural molecule activity and kinesin binding. An important paralog of this gene is CEP250.	Major structural component of the ciliary rootlet, a cytoskeletal-like structure in ciliated cells which originates from the basal body at the proximal end of a cilium and extends proximally toward the cell nucleus. Contributes to centrosome cohesion before mitosis.	same
CROCCL2	empty	CROCCP3 (Ciliary Rootlet Coiled-Coil, Rootletin Pseudogene 3) is a Pseudogene.	empty	diff
CRTC1	empty	CRTC1 (CREB Regulated Transcription Coactivator 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRTC1 include clear cell hidradenoma and cutaneous mucoepidermoid carcinoma. Among its related pathways are Glucose / Energy Metabolism and HTLV-I infection. GO annotations related to this gene include cAMP response element binding protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is CRTC3.	Transcriptional coactivator for CREB1 which activates transcription through both consensus and variant cAMP response element (CRE) sites. Acts as a coactivator, in the SIK/TORC signaling pathway, being active when dephosphorylated and acts independently of CREB1 Ser-133 phosphorylation. Enhances the interaction of CREB1 with TAF4. Regulates the expression of specific CREB-activated genes such as the steroidogenic gene, StAR. Potent coactivator of PGC1alpha and inducer of mitochondrial biogenesis in muscle cells. Also coactivator for TAX activation of the human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1) long terminal repeats (LTR). In the hippocampus, involved in late-phase long-term potentiation (L-LTP) maintenance at the Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses. May be required for dendritic growth of developing cortical neurons (By similarity). In concert with SIK1, regulates the light-induced entrainment of the circadian clock. In response to light stimulus, coactivates the CREB-mediated transcription of PER1 which plays an important role in the photic entrainment of the circadian clock.	same
CROCCL1	empty	CROCCP2 (Ciliary Rootlet Coiled-Coil, Rootletin Pseudogene 2) is a Pseudogene.	empty	diff
CRTC3	This gene is a member of the CREB regulated transcription coactivator gene family. This family regulates CREB-dependent gene transcription in a phosphorylation-independent manner and may be selective for cAMP-responsive genes. The protein encoded by this gene may induce mitochondrial biogenesis and attenuate catecholamine signaling in adipose tissue. A translocation event between this gene and Notch coactivator mastermind-like gene 2, which results in a fusion protein, has been reported in mucoepidermoid carcinomas. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]	CRTC3 (CREB Regulated Transcription Coactivator 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRTC3 include warthin tumor. Among its related pathways are Glucose / Energy Metabolism and HTLV-I infection. GO annotations related to this gene include cAMP response element binding protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is CRTC2.	Transcriptional coactivator for CREB1 which activates transcription through both consensus and variant cAMP response element (CRE) sites. Acts as a coactivator, in the SIK/TORC signaling pathway, being active when dephosphorylated and acts independently of CREB1 Ser-133 phosphorylation. Enhances the interaction of CREB1 with TAF4. Regulates the expression of specific CREB-activated genes such as the steroidogenic gene, StAR. Potent coactivator of PPARGC1A and inducer of mitochondrial biogenesis in muscle cells. Also coactivator for TAX activation of the human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1) long terminal repeats (LTR).	same
CRTAP	The protein encoded by this gene is similar to the chicken and mouse CRTAP genes. The encoded protein is a scaffolding protein that may influence the activity of at least one member of the cytohesin/ARNO family in response to specific cellular stimuli. Defects in this gene are associated with osteogenesis imperfecta, a connective tissue disorder characterized by bone fragility and low bone mass. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CRTAP (Cartilage Associated Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRTAP include osteogenesis imperfecta, type vii and crtap-related osteogenesis imperfecta. Among its related pathways are Degradation of the extracellular matrix and Collagen biosynthesis and modifying enzymes. An important paralog of this gene is P3H4.	Necessary for efficient 3-hydroxylation of fibrillar collagen prolyl residues.	same
CRY1	This gene encodes a flavin adenine dinucleotide-binding protein that is a key component of the circadian core oscillator complex, which regulates the circadian clock. This gene is upregulated by CLOCK/ARNTL heterodimers but then represses this upregulation in a feedback loop using PER/CRY heterodimers to interact with CLOCK/ARNTL. Polymorphisms in this gene have been associated with altered sleep patterns. The encoded protein is widely conserved across plants and animals. Loss of the related gene in mouse results in a shortened circadian cycle in complete darkness. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2014]	CRY1 (Cryptochrome Circadian Clock 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Circadian Clock and Circadian Clock. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleotide binding and double-stranded DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is CRY2.	Transcriptional repressor which forms a core component of the circadian clock. The circadian clock, an internal time-keeping system, regulates various physiological processes through the generation of approximately 24 hour circadian rhythms in gene expression, which are translated into rhythms in metabolism and behavior. It is derived from the Latin roots circa (about) and diem (day) and acts as an important regulator of a wide array of physiological functions including metabolism, sleep, body temperature, blood pressure, endocrine, immune, cardiovascular, and renal function. Consists of two major components: the central clock, residing in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the brain, and the peripheral clocks that are present in nearly every tissue and organ system. Both the central and peripheral clocks can be reset by environmental cues, also known as Zeitgebers (German for timegivers). The predominant Zeitgeber for the central clock is light, which is sensed by retina and signals directly to the SCN. The central clock entrains the peripheral clocks through neuronal and hormonal signals, body temperature and feeding-related cues, aligning all clocks with the external light/dark cycle. Circadian rhythms allow an organism to achieve temporal homeostasis with its environment at the molecular level by regulating gene expression to create a peak of protein expression once every 24 hours to control when a particular physiological process is most active with respect to the solar day. Transcription and translation of core clock components (CLOCK, NPAS2, ARNTL/BMAL1, ARNTL2/BMAL2, PER1, PER2, PER3, CRY1 and CRY2) plays a critical role in rhythm generation, whereas delays imposed by post-translational modifications (PTMs) are important for determining the period (tau) of the rhythms (tau refers to the period of a rhythm and is the length, in time, of one complete cycle). A diurnal rhythm is synchronized with the day/night cycle, while the ultradian and infradian rhythms have a period shorter and longer than 24 hours, respectively. Disruptions in the circadian rhythms contribute to the pathology of cardiovascular diseases, cancer, metabolic syndromes and aging. A transcription/translation feedback loop (TTFL) forms the core of the molecular circadian clock mechanism. Transcription factors, CLOCK or NPAS2 and ARNTL/BMAL1 or ARNTL2/BMAL2, form the positive limb of the feedback loop, act in the form of a heterodimer and activate the transcription of core clock genes and clock-controlled genes (involved in key metabolic processes), harboring E-box elements (5-CACGTG-3) within their promoters. The core clock genes: PER1/2/3 and CRY1/2 which are transcriptional repressors form the negative limb of the feedback loop and interact with the CLOCK NPAS2-ARNTL/BMAL1 ARNTL2/BMAL2 heterodimer inhibiting its activity and thereby negatively regulating their own expression. This heterodimer also activates nuclear receptors NR1D1/2 and RORA/B/G, which form a second feedback loop and which activate and repress ARNTL/BMAL1 transcription, respectively. CRY1 and CRY2 have redundant functions but also differential and selective contributions at least in defining the pace of the SCN circadian clock and its circadian transcriptional outputs. More potent transcriptional repressor in cerebellum and liver than CRY2, though more effective in lengthening the period of the SCN oscillator. On its side, CRY2 seems to play a critical role in tuning SCN circadian period by opposing the action of CRY1. With CRY2, is dispensable for circadian rhythm generation but necessary for the development of intercellular networks for rhythm synchrony. Capable of translocating circadian clock core proteins such as PER proteins to the nucleus. Interacts with CLOCK-ARNTL/BMAL1 independently of PER proteins and is found at CLOCK-ARNTL/BMAL1-bound sites, suggesting that CRY may act as a molecular gatekeeper to maintain CLOCK-ARNTL/BMAL1 in a poised and repressed state until the proper time for transcriptional activation. Represses the CLOCK-ARNTL/BMAL1 induced transcription of BHLHE40/DEC1. Represses the CLOCK-ARNTL/BMAL1 induced transcription of ATF4, MTA1, KLF10 and NAMPT (By similarity). May repress circadian target genes expression in collaboration with HDAC1 and HDAC2 through histone deacetylation. Mediates the clock-control activation of ATR and modulates ATR-mediated DNA damage checkpoint. In liver, mediates circadian regulation of cAMP signaling and gluconeogenesis by binding to membrane-coupled G proteins and blocking glucagon-mediated increases in intracellular cAMP concentrations and CREB1 phosphorylation. Besides its role in the maintenance of the circadian clock, is also involved in the regulation of other processes. Represses glucocorticoid receptor NR3C1/GR-induced transcriptional activity by binding to glucocorticoid response elements (GREs). Plays a key role in glucose and lipid metabolism modulation, in part, through the transcriptional regulation of genes involved in these pathways, such as LEP or ACSL4.	same
CRX	The protein encoded by this gene is a photoreceptor-specific transcription factor which plays a role in the differentiation of photoreceptor cells. This homeodomain protein is necessary for the maintenance of normal cone and rod function. Mutations in this gene are associated with photoreceptor degeneration, Leber congenital amaurosis type III and the autosomal dominant cone-rod dystrophy 2. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been described, but the full-length nature of some variants has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CRX (Cone-Rod Homeobox) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRX include leber congenital amaurosis 7 and cone-rod dystrophy. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and chromatin binding. An important paralog of this gene is PITX3.	Transcription factor that binds and transactivates the sequence 5-TAATC[CA]-3 which is found upstream of several photoreceptor-specific genes, including the opsin genes. Acts synergistically with other transcription factors, such as NRL, RORB and RAX, to regulate photoreceptor cell-specific gene transcription. Essential for the maintenance of mammalian photoreceptors.	same
CRISP3	empty	CRISP3 (Cysteine-Rich Secretory Protein 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRISP3 include prostate cancer. An important paralog of this gene is CLEC18B.	empty	same
CRLF2	This gene encodes a member of the type I cytokine receptor family. The encoded protein is a receptor for thymic stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP). Together with the interleukin 7 receptor (IL7R), the encoded protein and TSLP activate STAT3, STAT5, and JAK2 pathways, which control processes such as cell proliferation and development of the hematopoietic system. Rearrangement of this gene with immunoglobulin heavy chain gene (IGH) on chromosome 14, or with P2Y purinoceptor 8 gene (P2RY8) on the same X or Y chromosomes is associated with B-progenitor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and Down syndrome ALL. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	CRLF2 (Cytokine Receptor-Like Factor 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRLF2 include eczema herpeticum. Among its related pathways are PEDF Induced Signaling and Jak-STAT signaling pathway.	Receptor for thymic stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP). Forms a functional complex with TSLP and IL7R which is capable of stimulating cell proliferation through activation of STAT3 and STAT5. Also activates JAK2 (By similarity). Implicated in the development of the hematopoietic system.	same
CROT	This gene encodes a member of the carnitine/choline acetyltransferase family. The encoded protein converts 4,8-dimethylnonanoyl-CoA to its corresponding carnitine ester. This transesterification occurs in the peroxisome and is necessary for transport of medium- and long- chain acyl-CoA molecules out of the peroxisome to the cytosol and mitochondria. The protein thus plays a role in lipid metabolism and fatty acid beta-oxidation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009]	CROT (Carnitine O-Octanoyltransferase) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and carnitine O-octanoyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CRAT.	Beta-oxidation of fatty acids. The highest activity concerns the C6 to C10 chain length substrate. Converts the end product of pristanic acid beta oxidation, 4,8-dimethylnonanoyl-CoA, to its corresponding carnitine ester.	same
CRP	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the pentaxin family. It is involved in several host defense related functions based on its ability to recognize foreign pathogens and damaged cells of the host and to initiate their elimination by interacting with humoral and cellular effector systems in the blood. Consequently, the level of this protein in plasma increases greatly during acute phase response to tissue injury, infection, or other inflammatory stimuli. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]	CRP (C-Reactive Protein, Pentraxin-Related) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRP include pneumonia and appendicitis. Among its related pathways are Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and low-density lipoprotein particle binding. An important paralog of this gene is PTX3.	Displays several functions associated with host defense: it promotes agglutination, bacterial capsular swelling, phagocytosis and complement fixation through its calcium-dependent binding to phosphorylcholine. Can interact with DNA and histones and may scavenge nuclear material released from damaged circulating cells	same
CRISPLD2	empty	CRISPLD2 (Cysteine-Rich Secretory Protein LCCL Domain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include heparin binding. An important paralog of this gene is CLEC18B.	Promotes matrix assembly.	same
CRTC2	This gene encodes a member of the transducers of regulated cAMP response element-binding protein activity family of transcription coactivators. These proteins promote the transcription of genes targeted by the cAMP response element-binding protein, and therefore play an important role in many cellular processes. Under basal conditions the encoded protein is phosphorylated by AMP-activated protein kinase or the salt-inducible kinases and is sequestered in the cytoplasm. Upon activation by elevated cAMP or calcium, the encoded protein translocates to the nucleus and increases target gene expression. Single nucleotide polymorphisms in this gene may increase the risk of type 2 diabetes. A pseudogene of this gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 5. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]	CRTC2 (CREB Regulated Transcription Coactivator 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRTC2 include human t-cell leukemia virus type 1. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Glucose / Energy Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include cAMP response element binding protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is CRTC3.	Transcriptional coactivator for CREB1 which activates transcription through both consensus and variant cAMP response element (CRE) sites. Acts as a coactivator, in the SIK/TORC signaling pathway, being active when dephosphorylated and acts independently of CREB1 Ser-133 phosphorylation. Enhances the interaction of CREB1 with TAF4. Regulates gluconeogenesis as a component of the LKB1/AMPK/TORC2 signaling pathway. Regulates the expression of specific genes such as the steroidogenic gene, StAR. Potent coactivator of PPARGC1A and inducer of mitochondrial biogenesis in muscle cells. Also coactivator for TAX activation of the human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1) long terminal repeats (LTR).	same
CRYBB1	Crystallins are separated into two classes: taxon-specific, or enzyme, and ubiquitous. The latter class constitutes the major proteins of vertebrate eye lens and maintains the transparency and refractive index of the lens. Since lens central fiber cells lose their nuclei during development, these crystallins are made and then retained throughout life, making them extremely stable proteins. Mammalian lens crystallins are divided into alpha, beta, and gamma families; beta and gamma crystallins are also considered as a superfamily. Alpha and beta families are further divided into acidic and basic groups. Seven protein regions exist in crystallins: four homologous motifs, a connecting peptide, and N- and C-terminal extensions. Beta-crystallins, the most heterogeneous, differ by the presence of the C-terminal extension (present in the basic group, none in the acidic group). Beta-crystallins form aggregates of different sizes and are able to self-associate to form dimers or to form heterodimers with other beta-crystallins. This gene, a beta basic group member, undergoes extensive cleavage at its N-terminal extension during lens maturation. It is also a member of a gene cluster with beta-A4, beta-B2, and beta-B3. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CRYBB1 (Crystallin, Beta B1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRYBB1 include cataract 17, multiple types and nuclear cataract. GO annotations related to this gene include structural constituent of eye lens. An important paralog of this gene is CRYGC.	Crystallins are the dominant structural components of the vertebrate eye lens	same
CRYAB	Mammalian lens crystallins are divided into alpha, beta, and gamma families. Alpha crystallins are composed of two gene products: alpha-A and alpha-B, for acidic and basic, respectively. Alpha crystallins can be induced by heat shock and are members of the small heat shock protein (HSP20) family. They act as molecular chaperones although they do not renature proteins and release them in the fashion of a true chaperone; instead they hold them in large soluble aggregates. Post-translational modifications decrease the ability to chaperone. These heterogeneous aggregates consist of 30-40 subunits; the alpha-A and alpha-B subunits have a 3:1 ratio, respectively. Two additional functions of alpha crystallins are an autokinase activity and participation in the intracellular architecture. The encoded protein has been identified as a moonlighting protein based on its ability to perform mechanistically distinct functions. Alpha-A and alpha-B gene products are differentially expressed; alpha-A is preferentially restricted to the lens and alpha-B is expressed widely in many tissues and organs. Elevated expression of alpha-B crystallin occurs in many neurological diseases; a missense mutation cosegregated in a family with a desmin-related myopathy. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2014]	CRYAB (Crystallin, Alpha B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRYAB include myopathy, myofibrillar, 2 and cataract 16, multiple types. Among its related pathways are Protein processing in endoplasmic reticulum. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and microtubule binding. An important paralog of this gene is CRYAA.	May contribute to the transparency and refractive index of the lens. Has chaperone-like activity, preventing aggregation of various proteins under a wide range of stress conditions	same
CRYAA	Mammalian lens crystallins are divided into alpha, beta, and gamma families. Alpha crystallins are composed of two gene products: alpha-A and alpha-B, for acidic and basic, respectively. Alpha crystallins can be induced by heat shock and are members of the small heat shock protein (HSP20) family. They act as molecular chaperones although they do not renature proteins and release them in the fashion of a true chaperone; instead they hold them in large soluble aggregates. Post-translational modifications decrease the ability to chaperone. These heterogeneous aggregates consist of 30-40 subunits; the alpha-A and alpha-B subunits have a 3:1 ratio, respectively. Two additional functions of alpha crystallins are an autokinase activity and participation in the intracellular architecture. The encoded protein has been identified as a moonlighting protein based on its ability to perform mechanistically distinct functions. Alpha-A and alpha-B gene products are differentially expressed; alpha-A is preferentially restricted to the lens and alpha-B is expressed widely in many tissues and organs. Defects in this gene cause autosomal dominant congenital cataract (ADCC). [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2014]	CRYAA (Crystallin, Alpha A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRYAA include cataract 9, multiple types and nuclear cataract. Among its related pathways are Protein processing in endoplasmic reticulum and Regulation of degradation of deltaF508 CFTR in CF. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and structural constituent of eye lens. An important paralog of this gene is HSPB6.	Contributes to the transparency and refractive index of the lens. Has chaperone-like activity, preventing aggregation of various proteins under a wide range of stress conditions.	same
CRYBA4	Crystallins are separated into two classes: taxon-specific, or enzyme, and ubiquitous. The latter class constitutes the major proteins of vertebrate eye lens and maintains the transparency and refractive index of the lens. Since lens central fiber cells lose their nuclei during development, these crystallins are made and then retained throughout life, making them extremely stable proteins. Mammalian lens crystallins are divided into alpha, beta, and gamma families; beta and gamma crystallins are also considered as a superfamily. Alpha and beta families are further divided into acidic and basic groups. Seven protein regions exist in crystallins: four homologous motifs, a connecting peptide, and N- and C-terminal extensions. Beta-crystallins, the most heterogeneous, differ by the presence of the C-terminal extension (present in the basic group, none in the acidic group). Beta-crystallins form aggregates of different sizes and are able to self-associate to form dimers or to form heterodimers with other beta-crystallins. This gene, a beta acidic group member, is part of a gene cluster with beta-B1, beta-B2, and beta-B3. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CRYBA4 (Crystallin, Beta A4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRYBA4 include cataract 23 and cataract, zonular. GO annotations related to this gene include structural constituent of eye lens. An important paralog of this gene is CRYGC.	Crystallins are the dominant structural components of the vertebrate eye lens	same
CRYGA	Crystallins are separated into two classes: taxon-specific, or enzyme, and ubiquitous. The latter class constitutes the major proteins of vertebrate eye lens and maintains the transparency and refractive index of the lens. Since lens central fiber cells lose their nuclei during development, these crystallins are made and then retained throughout life, making them extremely stable proteins. Mammalian lens crystallins are divided into alpha, beta, and gamma families; beta and gamma crystallins are also considered as a superfamily. Alpha and beta families are further divided into acidic and basic groups. Seven protein regions exist in crystallins: four homologous motifs, a connecting peptide, and N- and C-terminal extensions. Gamma-crystallins are a homogeneous group of highly symmetrical, monomeric proteins typically lacking connecting peptides and terminal extensions. They are differentially regulated after early development. Four gamma-crystallin genes (gamma-A through gamma-D) and three pseudogenes (gamma-E, gamma-F, gamma-G) are tandemly organized in a genomic segment as a gene cluster. Whether due to aging or mutations in specific genes, gamma-crystallins have been involved in cataract formation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CRYGA (Crystallin, Gamma A) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include structural constituent of eye lens. An important paralog of this gene is CRYGC.	Crystallins are the dominant structural components of the vertebrate eye lens	same
CRYGC	This gene encodes a member of the beta/gamma-crystallin family of proteins. Crystallins constitute the major proteins of vertebrate eye lens and maintain the transparency and refractive index of the lens. This gene and several family members are present in a gene cluster on chromosome 2. Mutations in this gene have been shown to cause multiple types of cataract, including Coppock-like cataract and zonular pulverulent cataract, among others. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2015]	CRYGC (Crystallin, Gamma C) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRYGC include cataract 2, multiple types and cataract, zonular. GO annotations related to this gene include structural constituent of eye lens. An important paralog of this gene is CRYBB3.	Crystallins are the dominant structural components of the vertebrate eye lens	same
CRYGB	Crystallins are separated into two classes: taxon-specific, or enzyme, and ubiquitous. The latter class constitutes the major proteins of vertebrate eye lens and maintains the transparency and refractive index of the lens. Since lens central fiber cells lose their nuclei during development, these crystallins are made and then retained throughout life, making them extremely stable proteins. Mammalian lens crystallins are divided into alpha, beta, and gamma families; beta and gamma crystallins are also considered as a superfamily. Alpha and beta families are further divided into acidic and basic groups. Seven protein regions exist in crystallins: four homologous motifs, a connecting peptide, and N- and C-terminal extensions. Gamma-crystallins are a homogeneous group of highly symmetrical, monomeric proteins typically lacking connecting peptides and terminal extensions. They are differentially regulated after early development. Four gamma-crystallin genes (gamma-A through gamma-D) and three pseudogenes (gamma-E, gamma-F, gamma-G) are tandemly organized in a genomic segment as a gene cluster. Whether due to aging or mutations in specific genes, gamma-crystallins have been involved in cataract formation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CRYGB (Crystallin, Gamma B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRYGB include cataract 39, multiple types, autosomal dominant and cataract anterior polar dominant. GO annotations related to this gene include structural constituent of eye lens. An important paralog of this gene is CRYGC.	Crystallins are the dominant structural components of the vertebrate eye lens	same
CRYBA2	Crystallins are separated into two classes: taxon-specific, or enzyme, and ubiquitous. The latter class constitutes the major proteins of the vertebrate eye, which function to maintain the transparency and refractive index of the lens. Since lens central fiber cells lose their nuclei during development, these crystallins are made and then retained throughout life, making them extremely stable proteins. Mammalian lens crystallins are divided into alpha, beta, and gamma families; beta and gamma crystallins are also defined as a superfamily. Alpha and beta families are further divided into acidic and basic groups. Seven protein regions exist in crystallins: four homologous motifs, a connecting peptide, and N- and C-terminal extensions. Beta-crystallins, the most heterogeneous, differ by the presence of the C-terminal extension (present in the basic group but absent in the acidic group). Beta-crystallins form aggregates of different sizes and are able to form homodimers through self-association or heterodimers with other beta-crystallins. This gene is a beta acidic group member. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding identical proteins have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CRYBA2 (Crystallin, Beta A2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRYBA2 include cataract 42 and non-syndromic congenital cataract. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and structural constituent of eye lens. An important paralog of this gene is CRYGC.	Crystallins are the dominant structural components of the vertebrate eye lens	same
CRY2	This gene encodes a flavin adenine dinucleotide-binding protein that is a key component of the circadian core oscillator complex, which regulates the circadian clock. This gene is upregulated by CLOCK/ARNTL heterodimers but then represses this upregulation in a feedback loop using PER/CRY heterodimers to interact with CLOCK/ARNTL. Polymorphisms in this gene have been associated with altered sleep patterns. The encoded protein is widely conserved across plants and animals. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2014]	CRY2 (Cryptochrome Circadian Clock 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Circadian Clock and Circadian Clock. GO annotations related to this gene include single-stranded DNA binding and phosphatase binding. An important paralog of this gene is CRY1.	Transcriptional repressor which forms a core component of the circadian clock. The circadian clock, an internal time-keeping system, regulates various physiological processes through the generation of approximately 24 hour circadian rhythms in gene expression, which are translated into rhythms in metabolism and behavior. It is derived from the Latin roots circa (about) and diem (day) and acts as an important regulator of a wide array of physiological functions including metabolism, sleep, body temperature, blood pressure, endocrine, immune, cardiovascular, and renal function. Consists of two major components: the central clock, residing in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the brain, and the peripheral clocks that are present in nearly every tissue and organ system. Both the central and peripheral clocks can be reset by environmental cues, also known as Zeitgebers (German for timegivers). The predominant Zeitgeber for the central clock is light, which is sensed by retina and signals directly to the SCN. The central clock entrains the peripheral clocks through neuronal and hormonal signals, body temperature and feeding-related cues, aligning all clocks with the external light/dark cycle. Circadian rhythms allow an organism to achieve temporal homeostasis with its environment at the molecular level by regulating gene expression to create a peak of protein expression once every 24 hours to control when a particular physiological process is most active with respect to the solar day. Transcription and translation of core clock components (CLOCK, NPAS2, ARNTL/BMAL1, ARNTL2/BMAL2, PER1, PER2, PER3, CRY1 and CRY2) plays a critical role in rhythm generation, whereas delays imposed by post-translational modifications (PTMs) are important for determining the period (tau) of the rhythms (tau refers to the period of a rhythm and is the length, in time, of one complete cycle). A diurnal rhythm is synchronized with the day/night cycle, while the ultradian and infradian rhythms have a period shorter and longer than 24 hours, respectively. Disruptions in the circadian rhythms contribute to the pathology of cardiovascular diseases, cancer, metabolic syndromes and aging. A transcription/translation feedback loop (TTFL) forms the core of the molecular circadian clock mechanism. Transcription factors, CLOCK or NPAS2 and ARNTL/BMAL1 or ARNTL2/BMAL2, form the positive limb of the feedback loop, act in the form of a heterodimer and activate the transcription of core clock genes and clock-controlled genes (involved in key metabolic processes), harboring E-box elements (5-CACGTG-3) within their promoters. The core clock genes: PER1/2/3 and CRY1/2 which are transcriptional repressors form the negative limb of the feedback loop and interact with the CLOCK NPAS2-ARNTL/BMAL1 ARNTL2/BMAL2 heterodimer inhibiting its activity and thereby negatively regulating their own expression. This heterodimer also activates nuclear receptors NR1D1/2 and RORA/B/G, which form a second feedback loop and which activate and repress ARNTL/BMAL1 transcription, respectively. CRY1 and CRY2 have redundant functions but also differential and selective contributions at least in defining the pace of the SCN circadian clock and its circadian transcriptional outputs. Less potent transcriptional repressor in cerebellum and liver than CRY1, though less effective in lengthening the period of the SCN oscillator. Seems to play a critical role in tuning SCN circadian period by opposing the action of CRY1. With CRY1, dispensable for circadian rhythm generation but necessary for the development of intercellular networks for rhythm synchrony. May mediate circadian regulation of cAMP signaling and gluconeogenesis by blocking glucagon-mediated increases in intracellular cAMP concentrations and in CREB1 phosphorylation. Besides its role in the maintenance of the circadian clock, is also involved in the regulation of other processes. Plays a key role in glucose and lipid metabolism modulation, in part, through the transcriptional regulation of genes involved in these pathways, such as LEP or ACSL4. Represses glucocorticoid receptor NR3C1/GR-induced transcriptional activity by binding to glucocorticoid response elements (GREs). Represses the CLOCK-ARNTL/BMAL1 induced transcription of BHLHE40/DEC1. Represses the CLOCK-ARNTL/BMAL1 induced transcription of NAMPT (By similarity).	same
CRYBG3	empty	CRYBG3 (Beta-Gamma Crystallin Domain Containing 3) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is AIM1L.	Isoform vlAKAP: Anchoring protein that mediates the subcellular compartmentation of protein kinase A (PKA).	same
CRYGD	Crystallins are separated into two classes: taxon-specific, or enzyme, and ubiquitous. The latter class constitutes the major proteins of vertebrate eye lens and maintains the transparency and refractive index of the lens. Since lens central fiber cells lose their nuclei during development, these crystallins are made and then retained throughout life, making them extremely stable proteins. Mammalian lens crystallins are divided into alpha, beta, and gamma families; beta and gamma crystallins are also considered as a superfamily. Alpha and beta families are further divided into acidic and basic groups. Seven protein regions exist in crystallins: four homologous motifs, a connecting peptide, and N- and C-terminal extensions. Gamma-crystallins are a homogeneous group of highly symmetrical, monomeric proteins typically lacking connecting peptides and terminal extensions. They are differentially regulated after early development. Four gamma-crystallin genes (gamma-A through gamma-D) and three pseudogenes (gamma-E, gamma-F, gamma-G) are tandemly organized in a genomic segment as a gene cluster. Whether due to aging or mutations in specific genes, gamma-crystallins have been involved in cataract formation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CRYGD (Crystallin, Gamma D) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRYGD include cataract 4, multiple types and coralliform cataract. GO annotations related to this gene include structural constituent of eye lens. An important paralog of this gene is CRYGC.	Crystallins are the dominant structural components of the vertebrate eye lens	same
CRYBA1	Crystallins are separated into two classes: taxon-specific, or enzyme, and ubiquitous. The latter class constitutes the major proteins of vertebrate eye lens and maintains the transparency and refractive index of the lens. Since lens central fiber cells lose their nuclei during development, these crystallins are made and then retained throughout life, making them extremely stable proteins. Mammalian lens crystallins are divided into alpha, beta, and gamma families; beta and gamma crystallins are also considered as a superfamily. Alpha and beta families are further divided into acidic and basic groups. Seven protein regions exist in crystallins: four homologous motifs, a connecting peptide, and N- and C-terminal extensions. Beta-crystallins, the most heterogeneous, differ by the presence of the C-terminal extension (present in the basic group, none in the acidic group). Beta-crystallins form aggregates of different sizes and are able to self-associate to form dimers or to form heterodimers with other beta-crystallins. This gene, a beta acidic group member, encodes two proteins (crystallin, beta A3 and crystallin, beta A1) from a single mRNA, the latter protein is 17 aa shorter than crystallin, beta A3 and is generated by use of an alternate translation initiation site. Deletion of exons 3 and 4 causes the autosomal dominant disease 'zonular cataract with sutural opacities'. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CRYBA1 (Crystallin, Beta A1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRYBA1 include cataract 10, multiple types and cataract with y-shaped suture opacities. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and structural constituent of eye lens. An important paralog of this gene is CRYGC.	Crystallins are the dominant structural components of the vertebrate eye lens	same
CRYGN	The beta and gamma crystallins are evolutionarily related families of proteins that are localized to the refractive structure of the eye lens. The protein encoded by this gene is unique in that it has both beta and gamma crystallin protein motifs. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CRYGN (Crystallin, Gamma N) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CRYGC.	empty	same
CRYGS	Crystallins are separated into two classes: taxon-specific, or enzyme, and ubiquitous. The latter class constitutes the major proteins of vertebrate eye lens and maintains the transparency and refractive index of the lens. Since lens central fiber cells lose their nuclei during development, these crystallins are made and then retained throughout life, making them extremely stable proteins. Mammalian lens crystallins are divided into alpha, beta, and gamma families; beta and gamma crystallins are also considered as a superfamily. Alpha and beta families are further divided into acidic and basic groups. Seven protein regions exist in crystallins: four homologous motifs, a connecting peptide, and N- and C-terminal extensions. Gamma-crystallins are a homogeneous group of highly symmetrical, monomeric proteins typically lacking connecting peptides and terminal extensions. They are differentially regulated after early development. This gene encodes a protein initially considered to be a beta-crystallin but the encoded protein is monomeric and has greater sequence similarity to other gamma-crystallins. This gene encodes the most significant gamma-crystallin in adult eye lens tissue. Whether due to aging or mutations in specific genes, gamma-crystallins have been involved in cataract formation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CRYGS (Crystallin, Gamma S) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRYGS include cataract 20, multiple types and cataract, total congenital. GO annotations related to this gene include structural constituent of eye lens. An important paralog of this gene is CRYGC.	Crystallins are the dominant structural components of the vertebrate eye lens	same
CRYBB2	Crystallins are separated into two classes: taxon-specific, or enzyme, and ubiquitous. The latter class constitutes the major proteins of vertebrate eye lens and maintains the transparency and refractive index of the lens. Since lens central fiber cells lose their nuclei during development, these crystallins are made and then retained throughout life, making them extremely stable proteins. Mammalian lens crystallins are divided into alpha, beta, and gamma families; beta and gamma crystallins are also considered as a superfamily. Alpha and beta families are further divided into acidic and basic groups. Seven protein regions exist in crystallins: four homologous motifs, a connecting peptide, and N- and C-terminal extensions. Beta-crystallins, the most heterogeneous, differ by the presence of the C-terminal extension (present in the basic group, none in the acidic group). Beta-crystallins form aggregates of different sizes and are able to self-associate to form dimers or to form heterodimers with other beta-crystallins. This gene, a beta basic group member, is part of a gene cluster with beta-A4, beta-B1, and beta-B3. A chain-terminating mutation was found to cause type 2 cerulean cataracts. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CRYBB2 (Crystallin, Beta B2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRYBB2 include cataract 3, multiple types and cerulean cataract. Among its related pathways are Wnt signaling pathway (KEGG). GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and structural molecule activity. An important paralog of this gene is CRYGC.	Crystallins are the dominant structural components of the vertebrate eye lens	same
CRYBB3	Crystallins are separated into two classes: taxon-specific, or enzyme, and ubiquitous. The latter class constitutes the major proteins of vertebrate eye lens and maintains the transparency and refractive index of the lens. Since lens central fiber cells lose their nuclei during development, these crystallins are made and then retained throughout life, making them extremely stable proteins. Mammalian lens crystallins are divided into alpha, beta, and gamma families; beta and gamma crystallins are also considered as a superfamily. Alpha and beta families are further divided into acidic and basic groups. Seven protein regions exist in crystallins: four homologous motifs, a connecting peptide, and N- and C-terminal extensions. Beta-crystallins, the most heterogeneous, differ by the presence of the C-terminal extension (present in the basic group, none in the acidic group). Beta-crystallins form aggregates of different sizes and are able to self-associate to form dimers or to form heterodimers with other beta-crystallins. This gene, a beta basic group member, is part of a gene cluster with beta-A4, beta-B1, and beta-B2. Mutations in this gene result in cataract congenital nuclear autosomal recessive type 2. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2013]	CRYBB3 (Crystallin, Beta B3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRYBB3 include cataract 22, autosomal recessive and cataract anterior polar dominant. GO annotations related to this gene include structural constituent of eye lens. An important paralog of this gene is CRYGC.	Crystallins are the dominant structural components of the vertebrate eye lens	same
CRYL1	The uronate cycle functions as an alternative glucose metabolic pathway, accounting for about 5% of daily glucose catabolism. The product of this gene catalyzes the dehydrogenation of L-gulonate into dehydro-L-gulonate in the uronate cycle. The enzyme requires NAD(H) as a coenzyme, and is inhibited by inorganic phosphate. A similar gene in the rabbit is thought to serve a structural role in the lens of the eye. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CRYL1 (Crystallin, Lambda 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Glucuronidation. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity.	empty	same
CSAG2	empty	CSAG2 (CSAG Family, Member 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CSAG2 include chondrosarcoma and esophageal cancer. An important paralog of this gene is CSAG3.	Drug-resistance related protein, its expression is associated with the chemotherapy resistant and neoplastic phenotype. May also be linked to the malignant phenotype	same
CSAG1	This gene encodes a member of a family of tumor antigens. The protein is expressed in chondrosarcomas, but may also be expressed in normal tissues such as testis. Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants encoding the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CSAG1 (Chondrosarcoma Associated Gene 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CSAG1 include chondrosarcoma.	empty	same
CRYM	Crystallins are separated into two classes: taxon-specific and ubiquitous. The former class is also called phylogenetically-restricted crystallins. The latter class constitutes the major proteins of vertebrate eye lens and maintains the transparency and refractive index of the lens. This gene encodes a taxon-specific crystallin protein that binds NADPH and has sequence similarity to bacterial ornithine cyclodeaminases. The encoded protein does not perform a structural role in lens tissue, and instead it binds thyroid hormone for possible regulatory or developmental roles. Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal dominant non-syndromic deafness. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	CRYM (Crystallin, Mu) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CRYM include autosomal dominant non-syndromic sensorineural deafness type dfna. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and NADP binding.	Specifically catalyzes the reduction of imine bonds in brain substrates that may include cystathionine ketimine (CysK) and lanthionine ketimine (LK). Binds thyroid hormone which is a strong reversible inhibitor. Presumably involved in the regulation of the free intracellular concentration of triiodothyronine and access to its nuclear receptors.	same
CSAG3	empty	CSAG3 (CSAG Family, Member 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CSAG3 include chondrosarcoma and esophageal cancer. An important paralog of this gene is CSAG2.	Drug-resistance related protein, its expression is associated with the chemotherapy resistant and neoplastic phenotype. May also be linked to the malignant phenotype	same
CSDAP1	empty	YBX3P1 (Y Box Binding Protein 3 Pseudogene 1) is a Pseudogene.	empty	diff
CSDA	empty	YBX3 (Y Box Binding Protein 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Sertoli-Sertoli Cell Junction Dynamics and Sertoli-Sertoli Cell Junction Dynamics. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and double-stranded DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is YBX2.	Binds to the GM-CSF promoter. Seems to act as a repressor. Binds also to full length mRNA and to short RNA sequences containing the consensus site 5-UCCAUCA-3. May have a role in translation repression (By similarity).	diff
CSAD	This gene encodes a member of the group 2 decarboxylase family. A similar protein in rodents plays a role in multiple biological processes as the rate-limiting enzyme in taurine biosynthesis, catalyzing the decarboxylation of cysteinesulfinate to hypotaurine. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]	CSAD (Cysteine Sulfinic Acid Decarboxylase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CSAD include disuse amblyopia and amblyopia. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include pyridoxal phosphate binding and sulfinoalanine decarboxylase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DDC.	empty	same
CRYZ	Crystallins are separated into two classes: taxon-specific, or enzyme, and ubiquitous. The latter class constitutes the major proteins of vertebrate eye lens and maintains the transparency and refractive index of the lens. The former class is also called phylogenetically-restricted crystallins. This gene encodes a taxon-specific crystallin protein which has NADPH-dependent quinone reductase activity distinct from other known quinone reductases. It lacks alcohol dehydrogenase activity although by similarity it is considered a member of the zinc-containing alcohol dehydrogenase family. Unlike other mammalian species, in humans, lens expression is low. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. One pseudogene is known to exist. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008]	CRYZ (Crystallin, Zeta (Quinone Reductase)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include mRNA 3-UTR binding and NADPH:quinone reductase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ZADH2.	Does not have alcohol dehydrogenase activity. Binds NADP and acts through a one-electron transfer process. Orthoquinones, such as 1,2-naphthoquinone or 9,10-phenanthrenequinone, are the best substrates (in vitro). May act in the detoxification of xenobiotics. Interacts with (AU)-rich elements (ARE) in the 3-UTR of target mRNA species. Enhances the stability of mRNA coding for BCL2. NADPH binding interferes with mRNA binding.	same
CSF1R	The protein encoded by this gene is the receptor for colony stimulating factor 1, a cytokine which controls the production, differentiation, and function of macrophages. This receptor mediates most if not all of the biological effects of this cytokine. Ligand binding activates the receptor kinase through a process of oligomerization and transphosphorylation. The encoded protein is a tyrosine kinase transmembrane receptor and member of the CSF1/PDGF receptor family of tyrosine-protein kinases. Mutations in this gene have been associated with a predisposition to myeloid malignancy. The first intron of this gene contains a transcriptionally inactive ribosomal protein L7 processed pseudogene oriented in the opposite direction. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2013]	CSF1R (Colony Stimulating Factor 1 Receptor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CSF1R include leukoencephalopathy, diffuse hereditary, with spheroids and csf1r-related hereditary diffuse leukoencephalopathy with spheroids. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and GPCR Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and macrophage colony-stimulating factor receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is FGFR3.	Tyrosine-protein kinase that acts as cell-surface receptor for CSF1 and IL34 and plays an essential role in the regulation of survival, proliferation and differentiation of hematopoietic precursor cells, especially mononuclear phagocytes, such as macrophages and monocytes. Promotes the release of proinflammatory chemokines in response to IL34 and CSF1, and thereby plays an important role in innate immunity and in inflammatory processes. Plays an important role in the regulation of osteoclast proliferation and differentiation, the regulation of bone resorption, and is required for normal bone and tooth development. Required for normal male and female fertility, and for normal development of milk ducts and acinar structures in the mammary gland during pregnancy. Promotes reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton, regulates formation of membrane ruffles, cell adhesion and cell migration, and promotes cancer cell invasion. Activates several signaling pathways in response to ligand binding. Phosphorylates PIK3R1, PLCG2, GRB2, SLA2 and CBL. Activation of PLCG2 leads to the production of the cellular signaling molecules diacylglycerol and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate, that then lead to the activation of protein kinase C family members, especially PRKCD. Phosphorylation of PIK3R1, the regulatory subunit of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, leads to activation of the AKT1 signaling pathway. Activated CSF1R also mediates activation of the MAP kinases MAPK1/ERK2 and/or MAPK3/ERK1, and of the SRC family kinases SRC, FYN and YES1. Activated CSF1R transmits signals both via proteins that directly interact with phosphorylated tyrosine residues in its intracellular domain, or via adapter proteins, such as GRB2. Promotes activation of STAT family members STAT3, STAT5A and/or STAT5B. Promotes tyrosine phosphorylation of SHC1 and INPP5D/SHIP-1. Receptor signaling is down-regulated by protein phosphatases, such as INPP5D/SHIP-1, that dephosphorylate the receptor and its downstream effectors, and by rapid internalization of the activated receptor.	same
CSF2	The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that controls the production, differentiation, and function of granulocytes and macrophages. The active form of the protein is found extracellularly as a homodimer. This gene has been localized to a cluster of related genes at chromosome region 5q31, which is known to be associated with interstitial deletions in the 5q- syndrome and acute myelogenous leukemia. Other genes in the cluster include those encoding interleukins 4, 5, and 13. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CSF2 (Colony Stimulating Factor 2 (Granulocyte-Macrophage)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CSF2 include ecthyma and leukemoid reaction. Among its related pathways are Akt Signaling and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include cytokine activity and granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor receptor binding.	Cytokine that stimulates the growth and differentiation of hematopoietic precursor cells from various lineages, including granulocytes, macrophages, eosinophils and erythrocytes	same
CSF2RB	The protein encoded by this gene is the common beta chain of the high affinity receptor for IL-3, IL-5 and CSF. Defects in this gene have been reported to be associated with protein alveolar proteinosis (PAP). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CSF2RB (Colony Stimulating Factor 2 Receptor, Beta, Low-Affinity (Granulocyte-Macrophage)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CSF2RB include surfactant metabolism dysfunction, pulmonary, 5 and congenital pulmonary alveolar proteinosis. Among its related pathways are Akt Signaling and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor activity and interleukin-5 receptor activity.	High affinity receptor for interleukin-3, interleukin-5 and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor	same
CSF3R	The protein encoded by this gene is the receptor for colony stimulating factor 3, a cytokine that controls the production, differentiation, and function of granulocytes. The encoded protein, which is a member of the family of cytokine receptors, may also function in some cell surface adhesion or recognition processes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. Mutations in this gene are a cause of Kostmann syndrome, also known as severe congenital neutropenia. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]	CSF3R (Colony Stimulating Factor 3 Receptor (Granulocyte)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CSF3R include neutrophilia, hereditary and subacute myeloid leukemia. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Pathways in cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor activity and cytokine receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is IL12RB2.	Receptor for granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (CSF3), essential for granulocytic maturation. Plays a crucial role in the proliferation, differientation and survival of cells along the neutrophilic lineage. In addition it may function in some adhesion or recognition events at the cell surface.	same
CSF3	The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that controls the production, differentiation, and function of granulocytes. The active protein is found extracellularly. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	CSF3 (Colony Stimulating Factor 3 (Granulocyte)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CSF3 include refractory anemia with excess blasts in transformation and adult lymphoma. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include enzyme binding and growth factor activity.	Granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factors are cytokines that act in hematopoiesis by controlling the production, differentiation, and function of 2 related white cell populations of the blood, the granulocytes and the monocytes-macrophages. This CSF induces granulocytes	same
CSF2RA	The protein encoded by this gene is the alpha subunit of the heterodimeric receptor for colony stimulating factor 2, a cytokine which controls the production, differentiation, and function of granulocytes and macrophages. The encoded protein is a member of the cytokine family of receptors. This gene is found in the pseudoautosomal region (PAR) of the X and Y chromosomes. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene, with some of the isoforms being membrane-bound and others being soluble. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CSF2RA (Colony Stimulating Factor 2 Receptor, Alpha, Low-Affinity (Granulocyte-Macrophage)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CSF2RA include surfactant metabolism dysfunction, pulmonary, 4 and csf2ra-related pulmonary surfactant metabolism dysfunction. Among its related pathways are Pathways in cancer and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor activity and cytokine receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is IL3RA.	Low affinity receptor for granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor. Transduces a signal that results in the proliferation, differentiation, and functional activation of hematopoietic cells	same
CSGALNACT1	empty	CSGALNACT1 (Chondroitin Sulfate N-Acetylgalactosaminyltransferase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include glucuronosyltransferase activity and glucuronosyl-N-acetylgalactosaminyl-proteoglycan 4-beta-N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is B4GALNT4.	Transfers 1,4-N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) from UDP-GalNAc to the non-reducing end of glucuronic acid (GlcUA). Required for addition of the first GalNAc to the core tetrasaccharide linker and for elongation of chondroitin chains. Important role in chondroitin chain biosynthesis in cartilage.	same
CRYZL1	This gene encodes a protein that has sequence similarity to zeta crystallin, also known as quinone oxidoreductase. This zeta crystallin-like protein also contains an NAD(P)H binding site. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed but their full-length nature has not been completely determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CRYZL1 (Crystallin, Zeta (Quinone Reductase)-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include NADP binding and NADPH:quinone reductase activity.	empty	same
CSGALNACT2	This gene encodes a member of the chondroitin N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase family. The encoded protein is involved in elongation during chondroitin sulfate synthesis. A related pseudogene has been identified on chromosome X. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012]	CSGALNACT2 (Chondroitin Sulfate N-Acetylgalactosaminyltransferase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include acetylgalactosaminyltransferase activity and glucuronylgalactosylproteoglycan 4-beta-N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is B4GALNT4.	Transfers 1,4-N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) from UDP-GalNAc to the non-reducing end of glucuronic acid (GlcUA). Required for addition of the first GalNAc to the core tetrasaccharide linker and for elongation of chondroitin chains.	same
CSHL1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the somatotropin/prolactin family of hormones which play an important role in growth control. The gene, along with four other related genes, is located at the growth hormone locus on chromosome 17 where they are interspersed in the same transcriptional orientation; an arrangement which is thought to have evolved by a series of gene duplications. Although the five genes share a remarkably high degree of sequence identity, they are expressed selectively in different tissues. This particular family member is expressed in placental villi, although it was originally thought to be a pseudogene. In fact, alternative splicing suggests that the majority of the transcripts would be unable to express a secreted protein. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CSHL1 (Chorionic Somatomammotropin Hormone-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CSHL1 include trophoblastic neoplasm and isolated growth hormone deficiency. Among its related pathways are Notch Signaling Pathway (sino). GO annotations related to this gene include hormone activity. An important paralog of this gene is CSH1.	May be a novel gestational hormone required to compensate for absence of other members of the GH/CS cluster during gestation.	same
CSK	empty	CSK (C-Src Tyrosine Kinase) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are PI-3K cascade and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and protein tyrosine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is FER.	Non-receptor tyrosine-protein kinase that plays an important role in the regulation of cell growth, differentiation, migration and immune response. Phosphorylates tyrosine residues located in the C-terminal tails of Src-family kinases (SFKs) including LCK, SRC, HCK, FYN, LYN or YES1. Upon tail phosphorylation, Src-family members engage in intramolecular interactions between the phosphotyrosine tail and the SH2 domain that result in an inactive conformation. To inhibit SFKs, CSK is recruited to the plasma membrane via binding to transmembrane proteins or adapter proteins located near the plasma membrane. Suppresses signaling by various surface receptors, including T-cell receptor (TCR) and B-cell receptor (BCR) by phosphorylating and maintaining inactive several positive effectors such as FYN or LCK.	same
CSMD2	empty	CSMD2 (CUB And Sushi Multiple Domains 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CSMD2 include benign adult familial myoclonic epilepsy and intermediate charcot-marie-tooth neuropathy. An important paralog of this gene is CSMD3.	empty	same
CSN1S2A	This locus is the equivalent of casein gamma in mouse (GeneID 12993) and is found in a cluster of casein genes, similar to other mammals. In human, the potential open reading frame that matches the homologous protein from other species is prematurely truncated shortly after the signal peptide. Therefore, this locus appears to be a pseudogene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CSN1S2AP (Casein Alpha S2-Like A, Pseudogene) is a Pseudogene.	empty	diff
CSN1S1	empty	CSN1S1 (Casein Alpha S1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CSN1S1 include nocardiosis and enamel erosion. GO annotations related to this gene include transporter activity.	Important role in the capacity of milk to transport calcium phosphate	same
CSMD3	empty	CSMD3 (CUB And Sushi Multiple Domains 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CSMD3 include benign adult familial myoclonic epilepsy and colorectal cancer. An important paralog of this gene is CR1L.	empty	same
CSH1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the somatotropin/prolactin family of hormones and plays an important role in growth control. The gene is located at the growth hormone locus on chromosome 17 along with four other related genes in the same transcriptional orientation; an arrangement which is thought to have evolved by a series of gene duplications. Although the five genes share a remarkably high degree of sequence identity, they are expressed selectively in different tissues. Alternative splicing generates additional isoforms of each of the five growth hormones, leading to further diversity and potential for specialization. This particular family member is expressed mainly in the placenta and utilizes multiple transcription initiation sites. Expression of the identical mature proteins for chorionic somatomammotropin hormones 1 and 2 is upregulated during development, although the ratio of 1 to 2 increases by term. Mutations in this gene result in placental lactogen deficiency and Silver-Russell syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CSH1 (Chorionic Somatomammotropin Hormone 1 (Placental Lactogen)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CSH1 include epithelioid trophoblastic tumor and silver-russell syndrome. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and PI-3K cascade. GO annotations related to this gene include hormone activity. An important paralog of this gene is CSHL1.	Produced only during pregnancy and is involved in stimulating lactation, fetal growth and metabolism. Does not interact with GHR but only activates PRLR through zinc-induced dimerization.	same
CSDC2	empty	CSDC2 (Cold Shock Domain Containing C2, RNA Binding) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is CARHSP1.	RNA-binding factor which binds specifically to the very 3-UTR ends of both histone H1 and H3.3 mRNAs, encompassing the polyadenylation signal. Might play a central role in the negative regulation of histone variant synthesis in the developing brain (By similarity).	same
CSDE1	empty	CSDE1 (Cold Shock Domain Containing E1, RNA-Binding) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Validated targets of C-MYC transcriptional repression. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding.	RNA-binding protein. Required for internal initiation of translation of human rhinovirus RNA. May be involved in translationally coupled mRNA turnover. Implicated with other RNA-binding proteins in the cytoplasmic deadenylation/translational and decay interplay of the FOS mRNA mediated by the major coding-region determinant of instability (mCRD) domain.	same
CSE1L	Proteins that carry a nuclear localization signal (NLS) are transported into the nucleus by the importin-alpha/beta heterodimer. Importin-alpha binds the NLS, while importin-beta mediates translocation through the nuclear pore complex. After translocation, RanGTP binds importin-beta and displaces importin-alpha. Importin-alpha must then be returned to the cytoplasm, leaving the NLS protein behind. The protein encoded by this gene binds strongly to NLS-free importin-alpha, and this binding is released in the cytoplasm by the combined action of RANBP1 and RANGAP1. In addition, the encoded protein may play a role both in apoptosis and in cell proliferation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]	CSE1L (CSE1 Chromosome Segregation 1-Like (Yeast)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Direct p53 effectors and p53 pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include Ran GTPase binding and importin-alpha export receptor activity.	Export receptor for importin-alpha. Mediates importin-alpha re-export from the nucleus to the cytoplasm after import substrates (cargos) have been released into the nucleoplasm. In the nucleus binds cooperatively to importin-alpha and to the GTPase Ran in its active GTP-bound form. Docking of this trimeric complex to the nuclear pore complex (NPC) is mediated through binding to nucleoporins. Upon transit of a nuclear export complex into the cytoplasm, disassembling of the complex and hydrolysis of Ran-GTP to Ran-GDP (induced by RANBP1 and RANGAP1, respectively) cause release of the importin-alpha from the export receptor. CSE1L/XPO2 then return to the nuclear compartment and mediate another round of transport. The directionality of nuclear export is thought to be conferred by an asymmetric distribution of the GTP- and GDP-bound forms of Ran between the cytoplasm and nucleus.	same
CSN3	empty	CSN3 (Casein Kappa) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CSN3 include dentin sensitivity and mammary paget's disease. Among its related pathways are Degradation of the extracellular matrix and Non-integrin membrane-ECM interactions.	Kappa-casein stabilizes micelle formation, preventing casein precipitation in milk	same
CSH2	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the somatotropin/prolactin family of hormones and plays an important role in growth control. The gene is located at the growth hormone locus on chromosome 17 along with four other related genes in the same transcriptional orientation; an arrangement which is thought to have evolved by a series of gene duplications. Although the five genes share a remarkably high degree of sequence identity, they are expressed selectively in different tissues. Alternative splicing generates additional isoforms of each of the five growth hormones. This particular family member is expressed mainly in the placenta and utilizes multiple transcription initiation sites. Expression of the identical mature proteins for chorionic somatomammotropin hormones 1 and 2 is upregulated during development, while the ratio of 1 to 2 increases by term. Structural and expression differences provide avenues for developmental regulation and tissue specificity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CSH2 (Chorionic Somatomammotropin Hormone 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CSH2 include gestational trophoblastic neoplasm and epithelioid trophoblastic tumor. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Peptide ligand-binding receptors. An important paralog of this gene is CSHL1.	Produced only during pregnancy and is involved in stimulating lactation, fetal growth and metabolism. Does not interact with GHR but only activates PRLR through zinc-induced dimerization.	same
CSNK1A1P	empty	CSNK1A1P1 (Casein Kinase 1, Alpha 1 Pseudogene 1) is a Pseudogene.	empty	diff
CSNK1D	This gene is a member of the casein kinase I (CKI) gene family whose members have been implicated in the control of cytoplasmic and nuclear processes, including DNA replication and repair. The encoded protein may also be involved in the regulation of apoptosis, circadian rhythm, microtubule dynamics, chromosome segregation, and p53-mediated effects on growth. The encoded protein is highly similar to the mouse and rat CK1 delta homologs. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2014]	CSNK1D (Casein Kinase 1, Delta) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CSNK1D include advanced sleep-phase syndrome, familial, 2 and advanced sleep phase syndrome. Among its related pathways are GPCR Pathway and Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and tau-protein kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CSNK1G2.	Essential serine/threonine-protein kinase that regulates diverse cellular growth and survival processes including Wnt signaling, DNA repair and circadian rhythms. It can phosphorylate a large number of proteins. Casein kinases are operationally defined by their preferential utilization of acidic proteins such as caseins as substrates. Phosphorylates connexin-43/GJA1, MAP1A, SNAPIN, MAPT/TAU, TOP2A, DCK, HIF1A, EIF6, p53/TP53, DVL2, DVL3, ESR1, AIB1/NCOA3, DNMT1, PKD2, YAP1, PER1 and PER2. Central component of the circadian clock. In balance with PP1, determines the circadian period length through the regulation of the speed and rhythmicity of PER1 and PER2 phospohorylation. Controls PER1 and PER2 nuclear transport and degradation. YAP1 phosphorylation promotes its SCF(beta-TRCP) E3 ubiquitin ligase-mediated ubiquitination and subsequent degradation. DNMT1 phosphorylation reduces its DNA-binding activity. Phosphorylation of ESR1 and AIB1/NCOA3 stimulates their activity and coactivation. Phosphorylation of DVL2 and DVL3 regulates WNT3A signaling pathway that controls neurite outgrowth. EIF6 phosphorylation promotes its nuclear export. Triggers down-regulation of dopamine receptors in the forebrain. Activates DCK in vitro by phosphorylation. TOP2A phosphorylation favors DNA cleavable complex formation. May regulate the formation of the mitotic spindle apparatus in extravillous trophoblast. Modulates connexin-43/GJA1 gap junction assembly by phosphorylation. Probably involved in lymphocyte physiology. Regulates fast synaptic transmission mediated by glutamate.	same
CSF1	The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that controls the production, differentiation, and function of macrophages. The active form of the protein is found extracellularly as a disulfide-linked homodimer, and is thought to be produced by proteolytic cleavage of membrane-bound precursors. The encoded protein may be involved in development of the placenta. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]	CSF1 (Colony Stimulating Factor 1 (Macrophage)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CSF1 include tenosynovial giant cell tumor and neutropenia, cyclic. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Ras signaling pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and growth factor activity.	Cytokine that plays an essential role in the regulation of survival, proliferation and differentiation of hematopoietic precursor cells, especially mononuclear phagocytes, such as macrophages and monocytes. Promotes the release of proinflammatory chemokines, and thereby plays an important role in innate immunity and in inflammatory processes. Plays an important role in the regulation of osteoclast proliferation and differentiation, the regulation of bone resorption, and is required for normal bone development. Required for normal male and female fertility. Promotes reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton, regulates formation of membrane ruffles, cell adhesion and cell migration. Plays a role in lipoprotein clearance.	same
CSNK1A1	empty	CSNK1A1 (Casein Kinase 1, Alpha 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CSNK1A1 include lung cancer. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and GPCR Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and protein kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CSNK1G2.	Casein kinases are operationally defined by their preferential utilization of acidic proteins such as caseins as substrates. It can phosphorylate a large number of proteins. Participates in Wnt signaling. Phosphorylates CTNNB1 at Ser-45. May phosphorylate PER1 and PER2. May play a role in segregating chromosomes during mitosis.	same
CSNK1E	The protein encoded by this gene is a serine/threonine protein kinase and a member of the casein kinase I protein family, whose members have been implicated in the control of cytoplasmic and nuclear processes, including DNA replication and repair. The encoded protein is found in the cytoplasm as a monomer and can phosphorylate a variety of proteins, including itself. This protein has been shown to phosphorylate period, a circadian rhythm protein. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2014]	CSNK1E (Casein Kinase 1, Epsilon) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CSNK1E include advanced sleep phase syndrome. Among its related pathways are GPCR Pathway and Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and protein kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CSNK1G2.	Casein kinases are operationally defined by their preferential utilization of acidic proteins such as caseins as substrates. Can phosphorylate a large number of proteins. Participates in Wnt signaling. Phosphorylates DVL1. Central component of the circadian clock. In balance with PP1, determines the circadian period length, through the regulation of the speed and rhythmicity of PER1 and PER2 phospohorylation. Controls PER1 and PER2 nuclear transport and degradation. Inhibits cytokine-induced granuloytic differentiation.	same
CSNK1G1	This gene encodes a member of the casein kinase I gene family. The encoded protein is a serine/threonine kinase that phosphorylates acidic proteins, and participates in pathways for cell growth. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]	CSNK1G1 (Casein Kinase 1, Gamma 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are GPCR Pathway and Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and glycoprotein binding. An important paralog of this gene is CSNK1G2.	Serine/threonine-protein kinase. Casein kinases are operationally defined by their preferential utilization of acidic proteins such as caseins as substrates. It can phosphorylate a large number of proteins. Participates in Wnt signaling. Regulates fast synaptic transmission mediated by glutamate (By similarity). Phosphorylates CLSPN.	same
CSNK1G2	empty	CSNK1G2 (Casein Kinase 1, Gamma 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are GPCR Pathway and Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and glycoprotein binding. An important paralog of this gene is CSNK1A1.	Serine/threonine-protein kinase. Casein kinases are operationally defined by their preferential utilization of acidic proteins such as caseins as substrates. It can phosphorylate a large number of proteins. Participates in Wnt signaling. Phosphorylates COL4A3BP/CERT, MTA1 and SMAD3. Involved in brain development and vesicular trafficking and neurotransmitter releasing from small synaptic vesicles. Regulates fast synaptic transmission mediated by glutamate. SMAD3 phosphorylation promotes its ligand-dependent ubiquitination and subsequent proteasome degradation, thus inhibiting SMAD3-mediated TGF-beta responses. Hyperphosphorylation of the serine-repeat motif of COL4A3BP/CERT leads to its inactivation by dissociation from the Golgi complex, thus down-regulating ER-to-Golgi transport of ceramide and sphingomyelin synthesis. Triggers PER1 proteasomal degradation probably through phosphorylation.	same
CSNK2A1P	This gene encodes a protein that is highly similar to the casein kinase II alpha protein. Casein kinase II is a serine/threonine protein kinase complex that phosphorylates numerous substrates including casein. The alpha subunit is the catalytic component of the complex. Mutations in this gene may be associated with a susceptibility to lung cancer. There are contradictory views among published reports of this gene as to whether or not it is a protein-coding gene or a processed pseudogene (PMIDs: 20625391, 20625391 and 10094393). [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012]	CSNK2A3 (Casein Kinase 2, Alpha 3 Polypeptide) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CSNK2A3 include lung cancer. Among its related pathways are Wnt signaling pathway (KEGG) and TNF-alpha/NF-kB Signaling Pathway. An important paralog of this gene is CSNK2A2.	Probable catalytic subunit of a constitutively active serine/threonine-protein kinase complex that phosphorylates a large number of substrates containing acidic residues C-terminal to the phosphorylated serine or threonine. Amplification-dependent oncogene; promotes cell proliferation and tumorigenesis by down-regulating expression of the tumor suppressor protein, PML. May play a role in the pathogenesis of the lung cancer development and progression.	diff
CSNK2A1	Casein kinase II is a serine/threonine protein kinase that phosphorylates acidic proteins such as casein. It is involved in various cellular processes, including cell cycle control, apoptosis, and circadian rhythm. The kinase exists as a tetramer and is composed of an alpha, an alpha-prime, and two beta subunits. The alpha subunits contain the catalytic activity while the beta subunits undergo autophosphorylation. The protein encoded by this gene represents the alpha subunit. While this gene is found on chromosome 20, a related transcribed pseudogene is found on chromosome 11. Three transcript variants encoding two different proteins have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]	CSNK2A1 (Casein Kinase 2, Alpha 1 Polypeptide) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CSNK2A1 include malaria. Among its related pathways are L1CAM interactions and NF-KappaB Family Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and beta-catenin binding. An important paralog of this gene is CSNK2A2.	Catalytic subunit of a constitutively active serine/threonine-protein kinase complex that phosphorylates a large number of substrates containing acidic residues C-terminal to the phosphorylated serine or threonine. Regulates numerous cellular processes, such as cell cycle progression, apoptosis and transcription, as well as viral infection. May act as a regulatory node which integrates and coordinates numerous signals leading to an appropriate cellular response. During mitosis, functions as a component of the p53/TP53-dependent spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC) that maintains cyclin-B-CDK1 activity and G2 arrest in response to spindle damage. Also required for p53/TP53-mediated apoptosis, phosphorylating Ser-392 of p53/TP53 following UV irradiation. Can also negatively regulate apoptosis. Phosphorylates the caspases CASP9 and CASP2 and the apoptotic regulator NOL3. Phosphorylation protects CASP9 from cleavage and activation by CASP8, and inhibits the dimerization of CASP2 and activation of CASP8. Regulates transcription by direct phosphorylation of RNA polymerases I, II, III and IV. Also phosphorylates and regulates numerous transcription factors including NF-kappa-B, STAT1, CREB1, IRF1, IRF2, ATF1, SRF, MAX, JUN, FOS, MYC and MYB. Phosphorylates Hsp90 and its co-chaperones FKBP4 and CDC37, which is essential for chaperone function. Regulates Wnt signaling by phosphorylating CTNNB1 and the transcription factor LEF1. Acts as an ectokinase that phosphorylates several extracellular proteins. During viral infection, phosphorylates various proteins involved in the viral life cycles of EBV, HSV, HBV, HCV, HIV, CMV and HPV. Phosphorylates PML at Ser-565 and primes it for ubiquitin-mediated degradation. Plays an important role in the circadian clock function by phosphorylating ARNTL/BMAL1 at Ser-90 which is pivotal for its interaction with CLOCK and which controls CLOCK nuclear entry.	same
CSNK2A2	empty	CSNK2A2 (Casein Kinase 2, Alpha Prime Polypeptide) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CSNK2A2 include theileriasis and pandas. Among its related pathways are L1CAM interactions and NF-KappaB Family Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and protein N-terminus binding. An important paralog of this gene is CSNK2A1.	Catalytic subunit of a constitutively active serine/threonine-protein kinase complex that phosphorylates a large number of substrates containing acidic residues C-terminal to the phosphorylated serine or threonine. Regulates numerous cellular processes, such as cell cycle progression, apoptosis and transcription, as well as viral infection. May act as a regulatory node which integrates and coordinates numerous signals leading to an appropriate cellular response. During mitosis, functions as a component of the p53/TP53-dependent spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC) that maintains cyclin-B-CDK1 activity and G2 arrest in response to spindle damage. Also required for p53/TP53-mediated apoptosis, phosphorylating Ser-392 of p53/TP53 following UV irradiation. Can also negatively regulate apoptosis. Phosphorylates the caspases CASP9 and CASP2 and the apoptotic regulator NOL3. Phosphorylation protects CASP9 from cleavage and activation by CASP8, and inhibits the dimerization of CASP2 and activation of CASP8. Regulates transcription by direct phosphorylation of RNA polymerases I, II, III and IV. Also phosphorylates and regulates numerous transcription factors including NF-kappa-B, STAT1, CREB1, IRF1, IRF2, ATF1, SRF, MAX, JUN, FOS, MYC and MYB. Phosphorylates Hsp90 and its co-chaperones FKBP4 and CDC37, which is essential for chaperone function. Regulates Wnt signaling by phosphorylating CTNNB1 and the transcription factor LEF1. Acts as an ectokinase that phosphorylates several extracellular proteins. During viral infection, phosphorylates various proteins involved in the viral life cycles of EBV, HSV, HBV, HCV, HIV, CMV and HPV.	same
CSMD1	empty	CSMD1 (CUB And Sushi Multiple Domains 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CSMD1 include benign adult familial myoclonic epilepsy. An important paralog of this gene is CSMD3.	Potential suppressor of squamous cell carcinomas	same
CSNK2B	This gene encodes the beta subunit of casein kinase II, a ubiquitous protein kinase which regulates metabolic pathways, signal transduction, transcription, translation, and replication. The enzyme is composed of three subunits, alpha, alpha prime and beta, which form a tetrameric holoenzyme. The alpha and alpha prime subunits are catalytic, while the beta subunit serves regulatory functions. The enzyme localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and the Golgi apparatus. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2013]	CSNK2B (Casein Kinase 2, Beta Polypeptide) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CSNK2B include egg allergy. Among its related pathways are L1CAM interactions and NF-KappaB Family Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and receptor binding. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000263020.	Participates in Wnt signaling (By similarity). Plays a complex role in regulating the basal catalytic activity of the alpha subunit.	same
CSPG5	The protein encoded by this gene is a proteoglycan that may function as a neural growth and differentiation factor. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]	CSPG5 (Chondroitin Sulfate Proteoglycan 5 (Neuroglycan C)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CSPG5 include spontaneous ocular nystagmus and dengue disease. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include growth factor activity.	May function as a growth and differentiation factor involved in neuritogenesis. May induce ERBB3 activation.	same
CSPP1	This gene encodes a centrosome and spindle pole associated protein. The encoded protein plays a role in cell-cycle progression and spindle organization, regulates cytokinesis, interacts with Nephrocystin 8 and is required for cilia formation. Mutations in this gene result in primary cilia abnormalities and classical Joubert syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2014]	CSPP1 (Centrosome And Spindle Pole Associated Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CSPP1 include joubert syndrome 21 and joubert syndrome with jeune asphyxiating thoracic dystrophy.	May play a role in cell-cycle-dependent microtubule organization.	same
CSRNP1	This gene encodes a protein that localizes to the nucleus and expression of this gene is induced in response to elevated levels of axin. The Wnt signalling pathway, which is negatively regulated by axin, is important in axis formation in early development and impaired regulation of this signalling pathway is often involved in tumors. A decreased level of expression of this gene in tumors compared to the level of expression in their corresponding normal tissues suggests that this gene product has a tumor suppressor function. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CSRNP1 (Cysteine-Serine-Rich Nuclear Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CSRNP2.	Binds to the consensus sequence 5-AGAGTG-3 and has transcriptional activator activity (By similarity). May have a tumor-suppressor function. May play a role in apoptosis.	same
CSRNP2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the CSRNP family of nuclear proteins that share conserved regions, including cysteine- and serine- rich regions, a basic domain, a transcriptional activation domain, and bind the sequence 'AGAGTG', thus have the hallmark of transcription factors. Studies in mice suggest that these genes may have redundant functions. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	CSRNP2 (Cysteine-Serine-Rich Nuclear Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and phosphatase binding. An important paralog of this gene is CSRNP3.	Binds to the consensus sequence 5-AGAGTG-3 and has transcriptional activator activity (By similarity). May play a role in apoptosis.	same
CSRNP3	empty	CSRNP3 (Cysteine-Serine-Rich Nuclear Protein 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CSRNP3 include leopard syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CSRNP2.	Binds to the consensus sequence 5-AGAGTG-3 and has transcriptional activator activity. Plays a role in apoptosis (By similarity).	same
CSRP1	This gene encodes a member of the cysteine-rich protein (CSRP) family. This gene family includes a group of LIM domain proteins, which may be involved in regulatory processes important for development and cellular differentiation. The LIM/double zinc-finger motif found in this gene product occurs in proteins with critical functions in gene regulation, cell growth, and somatic differentiation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]	CSRP1 (Cysteine And Glycine-Rich Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CSRP1 include pontiac fever and endocardial fibroelastosis. Among its related pathways are Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA and Activation of cAMP-Dependent PKA. An important paralog of this gene is CRIP2.	Could play a role in neuronal development	same
CSRP2BP	CSRP2 is a protein containing two LIM domains, which are double zinc finger motifs found in proteins of diverse function. CSRP2 and some related proteins are thought to act as protein adapters, bridging two or more proteins to form a larger protein complex. The protein encoded by this gene binds to one of the LIM domains of CSRP2 and contains an acetyltransferase domain. Although the encoded protein has been detected in the cytoplasm, it is predominantly a nuclear protein. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]	CSRP2BP (CSRP2 Binding Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are RNA Polymerase I Promoter Opening and RNA Polymerase I Promoter Opening. GO annotations related to this gene include histone acetyltransferase activity and LIM domain binding.	Component of the ATAC complex, a complex with histone acetyltransferase activity on histones H3 and H4. May function as a scaffold for the ATAC complex to promote ATAC complex stability. Has also weak histone acetyltransferase activity toward histone H4. Required for the normal progression through G1 and G2/M phases of the cell cycle.	same
CSNK1G3	This gene encodes a member of a family of serine/threonine protein kinases that phosphorylate caseins and other acidic proteins. A related protein in the African clawed frog participates in the transmission of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]	CSNK1G3 (Casein Kinase 1, Gamma 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are GPCR Pathway and Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and protein kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CSNK1G2.	Serine/threonine-protein kinase. Casein kinases are operationally defined by their preferential utilization of acidic proteins such as caseins as substrates. It can phosphorylate a large number of proteins. Participates in Wnt signaling. Regulates fast synaptic transmission mediated by glutamate (By similarity).	same
CST11	The cystatin superfamily encompasses proteins that contain multiple cystatin-like sequences. Some of the members are active cysteine protease inhibitors, while others have lost or perhaps never acquired this inhibitory activity. There are three inhibitory families in the superfamily, including the type 1 cystatins (stefins), type 2 cystatins and the kininogens. The type 2 cystatin proteins are a class of cysteine proteinase inhibitors found in a variety of human fluids and secretions. The cystatin locus on chromosome 20 contains the majority of the type 2 cystatin genes and pseudogenes. This gene is located in the cystatin locus and encodes an epididymal-specific protein shown to have antimicrobial activity against E. coli. Alternative splicing yields two variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	CST11 (Cystatin 11) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CST2.	Has antibacterial activity against the Gram-negative bacteria E.coli. May play a role in sperm maturation and fertilization.	same
CSRP2	CSRP2 is a member of the CSRP family of genes, encoding a group of LIM domain proteins, which may be involved in regulatory processes important for development and cellular differentiation. CRP2 contains two copies of the cysteine-rich amino acid sequence motif (LIM) with putative zinc-binding activity, and may be involved in regulating ordered cell growth. Other genes in the family include CSRP1 and CSRP3. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]	CSRP2 (Cysteine And Glycine-Rich Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are ATF-2 transcription factor network and Immune response IL-23 signaling pathway. An important paralog of this gene is CSRP1.	Drastically down-regulated in response to PDGF-BB or cell injury, that promote smooth muscle cell proliferation and dedifferentiation. Seems to play a role in the development of the embryonic vascular system	same
CST1	The cystatin superfamily encompasses proteins that contain multiple cystatin-like sequences. Some of the members are active cysteine protease inhibitors, while others have lost or perhaps never acquired this inhibitory activity. There are three inhibitory families in the superfamily, including the type 1 cystatins (stefins), type 2 cystatins and the kininogens. The type 2 cystatin proteins are a class of cysteine proteinase inhibitors found in a variety of human fluids and secretions, where they appear to provide protective functions. The cystatin locus on chromosome 20 contains the majority of the type 2 cystatin genes and pseudogenes. This gene is located in the cystatin locus and encodes a cysteine proteinase inhibitor found in saliva, tears, urine, and seminal fluid. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CST1 (Cystatin SN) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CST1 include denture stomatitis and stomatitis. Among its related pathways are Salivary secretion. GO annotations related to this gene include cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CST2.	Human saliva appears to contain several cysteine proteinase inhibitors that are immunologically related to cystatin S but that differ in their specificity due to amino acid sequence differences. Cystatin SN, with a pI of 7.5, is a much better inhibitor of papain and dipeptidyl peptidase I than is cystatin S, although both inhibit ficin equally well	same
CSRP3	This gene encodes a member of the CSRP family of LIM domain proteins, which may be involved in regulatory processes important for development and cellular differentiation. The LIM/double zinc-finger motif found in this protein is found in a group of proteins with critical functions in gene regulation, cell growth, and somatic differentiation. Mutations in this gene are thought to cause heritable forms of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) and dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) in humans. Alternatively spliced transcript variants with different 5' UTR, but encoding the same protein, have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CSRP3 (Cysteine And Glycine-Rich Protein 3 (Cardiac LIM Protein)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CSRP3 include cardiomyopathy, dilated, 1m and cardiomyopathy, familial hypertrophic, 12. Among its related pathways are IL6-mediated signaling events. GO annotations related to this gene include structural constituent of muscle and telethonin binding. An important paralog of this gene is CSRP1.	Positive regulator of myogenesis. Plays a crucial and specific role in the organization of cytosolic structures in cardiomyocytes. Could play a role in mechanical stretch sensing. May be a scaffold protein that promotes the assembly of interacting proteins at Z-line structures. It is essential for calcineurin anchorage to the Z line. Required for stress-induced calcineurin-NFAT activation (By similarity).	same
CST2	The cystatin superfamily encompasses proteins that contain multiple cystatin-like sequences. Some of the members are active cysteine protease inhibitors, while others have lost or perhaps never acquired this inhibitory activity. There are three inhibitory families in the superfamily, including the type 1 cystatins (stefins), type 2 cystatins and the kininogens. The type 2 cystatin proteins are a class of cysteine proteinase inhibitors found in a variety of human fluids and secretions, where they appear to provide protective functions. The cystatin locus on chromosome 20 contains the majority of the type 2 cystatin genes and pseudogenes. This gene is located in the cystatin locus and encodes a secreted thiol protease inhibitor found at high levels in saliva, tears and seminal plasma. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CST2 (Cystatin SA) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CST2 include autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome type 1. Among its related pathways are Salivary secretion. GO annotations related to this gene include cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CST8.	Thiol protease inhibitor	same
CSPG4	A human melanoma-associated chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan plays a role in stabilizing cell-substratum interactions during early events of melanoma cell spreading on endothelial basement membranes. CSPG4 represents an integral membrane chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan expressed by human malignant melanoma cells. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CSPG4 (Chondroitin Sulfate Proteoglycan 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CSPG4 include melanoma and acral lentiginous melanoma. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and signal transducer activity. An important paralog of this gene is FREM3.	Proteoglycan playing a role in cell proliferation and migration which stimulates endothelial cells motility during microvascular morphogenesis. May also inhibit neurite outgrowth and growth cone collapse during axon regeneration. Cell surface receptor for collagen alpha 2(VI) which may confer cells ability to migrate on that substrate. Binds through its extracellular N-terminus growth factors, extracellular matrix proteases modulating their activity. May regulate MPP16-dependent degradation and invasion of type I collagen participating in melanoma cells invasion properties. May modulate the plasminogen system by enhancing plasminogen activation and inhibiting angiostatin. Functions also as a signal transducing protein by binding through its cytoplasmic C-terminus scaffolding and signaling proteins. May promote retraction fiber formation and cell polarization through Rho GTPase activation. May stimulate alpha-4, beta-1 integrin-mediated adhesion and spreading by recruiting and activating a signaling cascade through CDC42, ACK1 and BCAR1. May activate FAK and ERK1/ERK2 signaling cascades.	same
CST4	The cystatin superfamily encompasses proteins that contain multiple cystatin-like sequences. Some of the members are active cysteine protease inhibitors, while others have lost or perhaps never acquired this inhibitory activity. There are three inhibitory families in the superfamily, including the type 1 cystatins (stefins), type 2 cystatins and the kininogens. The type 2 cystatin proteins are a class of cysteine proteinase inhibitors found in a variety of human fluids and secretions. The cystatin locus on chromosome 20 contains the majority of the type 2 cystatin genes and pseudogenes. This gene is located in the cystatin locus and encodes a type 2 salivary cysteine peptidase inhibitor. The protein is an S-type cystatin, based on its high level of expression in saliva, tears and seminal plasma. The specific role in these fluids is unclear but antibacterial and antiviral activity is present, consistent with a protective function. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CST4 (Cystatin S) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CST4 include blepharitis and colorectal cancer. Among its related pathways are Salivary secretion. GO annotations related to this gene include cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CST2.	This protein strongly inhibits papain and ficin, partially inhibits stem bromelain and bovine cathepsin C, but does not inhibit porcine cathepsin B or clostripain. Papain is inhibited non-competitively	same
CST5	The cystatin superfamily encompasses proteins that contain multiple cystatin-like sequences. Some of the members are active cysteine protease inhibitors, while others have lost or perhaps never acquired this inhibitory activity. There are three inhibitory families in the superfamily, including the type 1 cystatins (stefins), type 2 cystatins and the kininogens. The type 2 cystatin proteins are a class of cysteine proteinase inhibitors found in a variety of human fluids and secretions. The cystatin locus on chromosome 20 contains the majority of the type 2 cystatin genes and pseudogenes. This gene is located in the cystatin locus and encodes a protein found in saliva and tears. The encoded protein may play a protective role against proteinases present in the oral cavity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CST5 (Cystatin D) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Endochondral Ossification and Salivary secretion. GO annotations related to this gene include cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CST2.	Cysteine proteinase inhibitor that possibly plays a protective role against proteinases present in the oral cavity. The order of preference for inhibition is cathepsin S > cathepsin H > cathepsin L > cathepsin B.	same
CSPG4PY2	There are two copies of this pseudogene within the P1 palindrome on chromosome Y. This record represents the more centromeric copy. This gene is identical to the transcribed locus CSPG4P1Y, GeneID 114758, but is represented as non-transcribed because there is no representative transcript available in a public sequence database. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]	CSPG4P2Y (Chondroitin Sulfate Proteoglycan 4 Pseudogene 2, Y-Linked) is a Pseudogene.	empty	diff
CST6	The cystatin superfamily encompasses proteins that contain multiple cystatin-like sequences. Some of the members are active cysteine protease inhibitors, while others have lost or perhaps never acquired this inhibitory activity. There are three inhibitory families in the superfamily, including the type 1 cystatins (stefins), type 2 cystatins and the kininogens. The type 2 cystatin proteins are a class of cysteine proteinase inhibitors found in a variety of human fluids and secretions, where they appear to provide protective functions. This gene encodes a cystatin from the type 2 family, which is down-regulated in metastatic breast tumor cells as compared to primary tumor cells. Loss of expression is likely associated with the progression of a primary tumor to a metastatic phenotype. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CST6 (Cystatin E/M) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CST6 include breast cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CST7.	Shows moderate inhibition of cathepsin B but is not active against cathepsin C	same
CST7	The cystatin superfamily encompasses proteins that contain multiple cystatin-like sequences. Some of the members are active cysteine protease inhibitors, while others have lost or perhaps never acquired this inhibitory activity. There are three inhibitory families in the superfamily, including the type 1 cystatins (stefins), type 2 cystatins and the kininogens. The type 2 cystatin proteins are a class of cysteine proteinase inhibitors found in a variety of human fluids and secretions. This gene encodes a glycosylated cysteine protease inhibitor with a putative role in immune regulation through inhibition of a unique target in the hematopoietic system. Expression of the protein has been observed in various human cancer cell lines established from malignant tumors. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CST7 (Cystatin F (Leukocystatin)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include endopeptidase inhibitor activity and cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CST6.	Inhibits papain and cathepsin L but with affinities lower than other cystatins. May play a role in immune regulation through inhibition of a unique target in the hematopoietic system	same
CST8	The cystatin superfamily encompasses proteins that contain multiple cystatin-like sequences. Some of the members are active cysteine protease inhibitors, while others have lost or perhaps never acquired this inhibitory activity. There are three inhibitory families in the superfamily, including the type 1 cystatins (stefins), type 2 cystatins and the kininogens. The type 2 cystatin proteins are a class of cysteine proteinase inhibitors found in a variety of human fluids and secretions. The cystatin locus on chromosome 20 contains the majority of the type 2 cystatin genes and pseudogenes. This gene is located in the cystatin locus and encodes a protein similar to type 2 cystatins. The encoded protein exhibits highly tissue-specific expression in the reproductive tract, suggesting implicit roles in reproduction. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2013]	CST8 (Cystatin 8 (Cystatin-Related Epididymal Specific)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CST2.	Performs a specialized role during sperm development and maturation	same
CSN2	This gene is a member of the beta casein family. There are two types of casein protein, beta (encoded by this gene) and kappa, both of which are secreted in human milk. Beta casein is the principal protein in human milk and the primary source of essential amino acids for a suckling infant. Beta and kappa casein proteins acting together form spherical micelles which bind within them important dietary minerals, such as calcium and phosphorous. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]	CSN2 (Casein Beta) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are PI-3K cascade and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and enzyme inhibitor activity.	Important role in determination of the surface properties of the casein micelles	same
CST9	The cystatin superfamily encompasses proteins that contain multiple cystatin-like sequences. Some of the members are active cysteine protease inhibitors, while others have lost or perhaps never acquired this inhibitory activity. There are three inhibitory families in the superfamily, including the type 1 cystatins (stefins), type 2 cystatins and the kininogens. The type 2 cystatin proteins are a class of cysteine proteinase inhibitors found in a variety of human fluids and secretions, where they appear to provide protective functions. The cystatin locus on chromosome 20 contains the majority of the type 2 cystatin genes and pseudogenes. This gene is located in the cystatin locus and encodes a secreted protein that may play a role in hematopoietic differentiation or inflammation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CST9 (Cystatin 9 (Testatin)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CST9 include breast adenocarcinoma. GO annotations related to this gene include cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CST9L.	May play a role in hematopoietic differentiation or inflammation	same
CSTB	The cystatin superfamily encompasses proteins that contain multiple cystatin-like sequences. Some of the members are active cysteine protease inhibitors, while others have lost or perhaps never acquired this inhibitory activity. There are three inhibitory families in the superfamily, including the type 1 cystatins (stefins), type 2 cystatins and kininogens. This gene encodes a stefin that functions as an intracellular thiol protease inhibitor. The protein is able to form a dimer stabilized by noncovalent forces, inhibiting papain and cathepsins l, h and b. The protein is thought to play a role in protecting against the proteases leaking from lysosomes. Evidence indicates that mutations in this gene are responsible for the primary defects in patients with progressive myoclonic epilepsy (EPM1). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CSTB (Cystatin B (Stefin B)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CSTB include epilepsy, progressive myoclonic 1a and unverricht-lundborg syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include protease binding and cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CSTA.	This is an intracellular thiol proteinase inhibitor. Tightly binding reversible inhibitor of cathepsins L, H and B	same
CSTA	The cystatin superfamily encompasses proteins that contain multiple cystatin-like sequences. Some of the members are active cysteine protease inhibitors, while others have lost or perhaps never acquired this inhibitory activity. There are three inhibitory families in the superfamily, including the type 1 cystatins (stefins), type 2 cystatins, and kininogens. This gene encodes a stefin that functions as a cysteine protease inhibitor, forming tight complexes with papain and the cathepsins B, H, and L. The protein is one of the precursor proteins of cornified cell envelope in keratinocytes and plays a role in epidermal development and maintenance. Stefins have been proposed as prognostic and diagnostic tools for cancer. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CSTA (Cystatin A (Stefin A)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CSTA include exfoliative ichthyosis, autosomal recessive, ichthyosis bullosa of siemens-like and exfoliative ichthyosis. GO annotations related to this gene include structural molecule activity and protein binding, bridging. An important paralog of this gene is CSTB.	This is an intracellular thiol proteinase inhibitor. Has an important role in desmosome-mediated cell-cell adhesion in the lower levels of the epidermis.	same
CSTF2T	empty	CSTF2T (Cleavage Stimulation Factor, 3' Pre-RNA, Subunit 2, 64kDa, Tau Variant) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Sertoli-Sertoli Cell Junction Dynamics and mRNA Splicing - Major Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and nucleotide binding. An important paralog of this gene is RBMX2.	May play a significant role in AAUAAA-independent mRNA polyadenylation in germ cells. Directly involved in the binding to pre-mRNAs (By similarity).	same
CST3	The cystatin superfamily encompasses proteins that contain multiple cystatin-like sequences. Some of the members are active cysteine protease inhibitors, while others have lost or perhaps never acquired this inhibitory activity. There are three inhibitory families in the superfamily, including the type 1 cystatins (stefins), type 2 cystatins and the kininogens. The type 2 cystatin proteins are a class of cysteine proteinase inhibitors found in a variety of human fluids and secretions, where they appear to provide protective functions. The cystatin locus on chromosome 20 contains the majority of the type 2 cystatin genes and pseudogenes. This gene is located in the cystatin locus and encodes the most abundant extracellular inhibitor of cysteine proteases, which is found in high concentrations in biological fluids and is expressed in virtually all organs of the body. A mutation in this gene has been associated with amyloid angiopathy. Expression of this protein in vascular wall smooth muscle cells is severely reduced in both atherosclerotic and aneurysmal aortic lesions, establishing its role in vascular disease. In addition, this protein has been shown to have an antimicrobial function, inhibiting the replication of herpes simplex virus. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding a single protein. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]	CST3 (Cystatin C) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CST3 include macular degeneration, age-related, 11 and cerebral amyloid angiopathy. Among its related pathways are Disease and Integrated Pancreatic Cancer Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protease binding and cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CST2.	As an inhibitor of cysteine proteinases, this protein is thought to serve an important physiological role as a local regulator of this enzyme activity	same
CSTF3	The protein encoded by this gene is one of three (including CSTF1 and CSTF2) cleavage stimulation factors that combine to form the cleavage stimulation factor complex (CSTF). This complex is involved in the polyadenylation and 3' end cleavage of pre-mRNAs. The encoded protein functions as a homodimer and interacts directly with both CSTF1 and CSTF2 in the CSTF complex. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CSTF3 (Cleavage Stimulation Factor, 3' Pre-RNA, Subunit 3, 77kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Sertoli-Sertoli Cell Junction Dynamics and Gene Expression. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding.	One of the multiple factors required for polyadenylation and 3-end cleavage of mammalian pre-mRNAs	same
CSTF2	This gene encodes a nuclear protein with an RRM (RNA recognition motif) domain. The protein is a member of the cleavage stimulation factor (CSTF) complex that is involved in the 3' end cleavage and polyadenylation of pre-mRNAs. Specifically, this protein binds GU-rich elements within the 3'-untranslated region of mRNAs. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CSTF2 (Cleavage Stimulation Factor, 3' Pre-RNA, Subunit 2, 64kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CSTF2 include cytomegalovirus infection. Among its related pathways are Sertoli-Sertoli Cell Junction Dynamics and Gene Expression. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and nucleotide binding. An important paralog of this gene is RBMX2.	One of the multiple factors required for polyadenylation and 3-end cleavage of mammalian pre-mRNAs. This subunit is directly involved in the binding to pre-mRNAs (By similarity).	same
CSTT	empty	CST13P (Cystatin 13, Pseudogene) is a Pseudogene.	empty	diff
CT45A1	empty	CT45A1 (Cancer/Testis Antigen Family 45, Member A1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CT45A1 include b-cell lymphomas. An important paralog of this gene is CT45A3.	empty	same
CSTL1	The cystatin superfamily encompasses proteins that contain multiple cystatin-like sequences. Some of the members are active cysteine protease inhibitors, while others have lost or perhaps never acquired this inhibitory activity. There are three inhibitory families in the superfamily, including the type 1 cystatins (stefins), type 2 cystatins and the kininogens. The type 2 cystatin proteins are a class of cysteine proteinase inhibitors found in a variety of human fluids and secretions. The cystatin locus on chromosome 20 contains the majority of the type 2 cystatin genes and pseudogenes. This gene is located at the telomeric end of the cystatin locus and encodes a type 2 cystatin-like protein. The specific function of this protein has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CSTL1 (Cystatin-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CST2.	empty	same
CT45A2	This gene represents one of a cluster of several similar genes located on the q arm of chromosome X. The genes in this cluster encode members of the cancer/testis (CT) family of antigens, and are distinct from other CT antigens. These antigens are thought to be novel therapeutic targets for human cancers. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2014]	CT45A2 (Cancer/Testis Antigen Family 45, Member A2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CT45A6.	empty	same
CT45A3	empty	CT45A3 (Cancer/Testis Antigen Family 45, Member A3) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is LOC101060211.	empty	same
CST9L	The cystatin superfamily encompasses proteins that contain multiple cystatin-like sequences. Some of the members are active cysteine protease inhibitors, while others have lost or perhaps never acquired this inhibitory activity. There are three inhibitory families in the superfamily, including the type 1 cystatins (stefins), type 2 cystatins and the kininogens. The type 2 cystatin proteins are a class of cysteine proteinase inhibitors found in a variety of human fluids and secretions. The cystatin locus on chromosome 20 contains the majority of the type 2 cystatin genes and pseudogenes. This gene is located in the cystatin locus and encodes a protein similar to mouse cystatin 9. Based on its testis-specific expression, it is likely to have a role in tissue reorganization during early testis development. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CST9L (Cystatin 9-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CST9.	empty	same
CT45A4	empty	CT45A4 (Cancer/Testis Antigen Family 45, Member A4) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is DDX26B.	empty	same
CT45A5	This gene represents one of a cluster of several similar genes located on the q arm of chromosome X. The genes in this cluster encode members of the cancer/testis (CT) family of antigens, and are distinct from other CT antigens. These antigens are thought to be novel therapeutic targets for human cancers. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2014]	CT45A5 (Cancer/Testis Antigen Family 45, Member A5) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is DDX26B.	empty	same
CT47A10	empty	CT47A10 (Cancer/Testis Antigen Family 47, Member A10) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CT47A8.	empty	same
CT47A11	This locus represents a member of the cancer/testis gene family 47. This family, also known as CT47, is comprised of 13 nearly identical loci clustered at Xq24. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]	CT47A11 (Cancer/Testis Antigen Family 47, Member A11) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CT47A8.	empty	same
CS	The protein encoded by this gene is a Krebs tricarboxylic acid cycle enzyme that catalyzes the synthesis of citrate from oxaloacetate and acetyl coenzyme A. The enzyme is found in nearly all cells capable of oxidative metablism. This protein is nuclear encoded and transported into the mitochondrial matrix, where the mature form is found. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CS (Citrate Synthase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CS include critical illness polyneuropathy and mitochondrial cardiomyopathy. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein. GO annotations related to this gene include citrate (Si)-synthase activity.	empty	same
CSTF1	This gene encodes one of three subunits which combine to form cleavage stimulation factor (CSTF). CSTF is involved in the polyadenylation and 3'end cleavage of pre-mRNAs. Similar to mammalian G protein beta subunits, this protein contains transducin-like repeats. Several transcript variants with different 5' UTR, but encoding the same protein, have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CSTF1 (Cleavage Stimulation Factor, 3' Pre-RNA, Subunit 1, 50kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Sertoli-Sertoli Cell Junction Dynamics and Gene Expression. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is PRPF4.	One of the multiple factors required for polyadenylation and 3-end cleavage of mammalian pre-mRNAs. May be responsible for the interaction of CSTF with other factors to form a stable complex on the pre-mRNA	same
CT47A2	This locus represents a member of the cancer/testis gene family 47. This family, also known as CT47, is comprised of 13 nearly identical loci clustered at Xq24. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]	CT47A2 (Cancer/Testis Antigen Family 47, Member A2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CT47A8.	empty	same
CT47A1	This locus represents a member of the cancer/testis gene family 47. This family, also known as CT47, is comprised of 13 nearly identical loci clustered at Xq24. This locus is the most telomeric of the cluster.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]	CT47A1 (Cancer/Testis Antigen Family 47, Member A1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CT47A8.	empty	same
CT47A6	This locus represents a member of the cancer/testis gene family 47. This family, also known as CT47, is comprised of 13 nearly identical loci clustered at Xq24. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]	CT47A6 (Cancer/Testis Antigen Family 47, Member A6) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CT47A8.	empty	same
CT47A9	This locus represents a member of the cancer/testis gene family 47. This family, also known as CT47, is comprised of 13 nearly identical loci clustered at Xq24. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]	CT47A9 (Cancer/Testis Antigen Family 47, Member A9) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CT47A8.	empty	same
CT47A7	This locus represents a member of the cancer/testis gene family 47. This family, also known as CT47, is comprised of 13 nearly identical loci clustered at Xq24. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]	CT47A7 (Cancer/Testis Antigen Family 47, Member A7) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CT47A8.	empty	same
CT45A6	empty	CT45A6 (Cancer/Testis Antigen Family 45, Member A6) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CT45A2.	empty	same
CT62	empty	CT62 (Cancer/Testis Antigen 62) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CTAG2	This gene encodes an autoimmunogenic tumor antigen that belongs to the ESO/LAGE family of cancer-testis antigens. This protein is expressed in a wide array of cancers including melanoma, breast cancer, bladder cancer and prostate cancer. This protein is also expressed in normal testis tissue. An alternative open reading frame product of this gene has been described in PMID:10399963. This alternate protein, termed CAMEL, is a tumor antigen that is recognized by melanoma-specific cytotoxic T-lymphocytes. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2013]	CTAG2 (Cancer/Testis Antigen 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTAG2 include melanoma and testicular germ cell tumor. An important paralog of this gene is CTAG1B.	empty	same
CT47B1	empty	CT47B1 (Cancer/Testis Antigen Family 47, Member B1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CT47A8.	empty	same
CTAGE1	empty	CTAGE1 (Cutaneous T-Cell Lymphoma-Associated Antigen 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTAGE1 include cutaneous t cell lymphoma. An important paralog of this gene is CTAGE9.	empty	same
CTAGE4	empty	CTAGE4 (CTAGE Family, Member 4) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CTAGE9.	Tumor-associated antigen	same
CTAG1B	The protein encoded by this gene is an antigen that is overexpressed in many cancers but that is also expressed in normal testis. This gene is found in a duplicated region of the X-chromosome and therefore has a neighboring gene of identical sequence. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]	CTAG1B (Cancer/Testis Antigen 1B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTAG1B include biphasic synovial sarcoma and soft tissue sarcoma. An important paralog of this gene is CTAG2.	empty	same
CTBP1	This gene encodes a protein that binds to the C-terminus of adenovirus E1A proteins. This phosphoprotein is a transcriptional repressor and may play a role during cellular proliferation. This protein and the product of a second closely related gene, CTBP2, can dimerize. Both proteins can also interact with a polycomb group protein complex which participates in regulation of gene expression during development. Alternative splicing of transcripts from this gene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CTBP1 (C-Terminal Binding Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Pathways in cancer and Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and transcription factor binding. An important paralog of this gene is CTBP2.	Corepressor targeting diverse transcription regulators such as GLIS2 or BCL6. Has dehydrogenase activity. Involved in controlling the equilibrium between tubular and stacked structures in the Golgi complex. Functions in brown adipose tissue (BAT) differentiation.	same
CTAGE9	empty	CTAGE9 (CTAGE Family, Member 9) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CTAGE5.	empty	same
CTAGE6	empty	CTAGE6 (CTAGE Family, Member 6) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CTAGE9.	empty	same
CTBS	Chitobiase is a lysosomal glycosidase involved in degradation of asparagine-linked oligosaccharides on glycoproteins (Aronson and Kuranda, 1989 [PubMed 2531691]).[supplied by OMIM, Nov 2010]	CTBS (Chitobiase, Di-N-Acetyl-) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include chitinase activity.	Involved in the degradation of asparagine-linked glycoproteins. Hydrolyze of N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosamine (1-4)N-acetylglucosamine chitobiose core from the reducing end of the bond, it requires prior cleavage by glycosylasparaginase	same
CTCF	This gene is a member of the BORIS + CTCF gene family and encodes a transcriptional regulator protein with 11 highly conserved zinc finger (ZF) domains. This nuclear protein is able to use different combinations of the ZF domains to bind different DNA target sequences and proteins. Depending upon the context of the site, the protein can bind a histone acetyltransferase (HAT)-containing complex and function as a transcriptional activator or bind a histone deacetylase (HDAC)-containing complex and function as a transcriptional repressor. If the protein is bound to a transcriptional insulator element, it can block communication between enhancers and upstream promoters, thereby regulating imprinted expression. Mutations in this gene have been associated with invasive breast cancers, prostate cancers, and Wilms' tumors. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]	CTCF (CCCTC-Binding Factor (Zinc Finger Protein)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTCF include mental retardation, autosomal dominant 21 and intellectual disability-feeding difficulties-developmental delay-microcephaly syndrome. Among its related pathways are SIDS Susceptibility Pathways and TGF-beta Receptor Signaling Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and transcription corepressor activity. An important paralog of this gene is HINFP.	Chromatin binding factor that binds to DNA sequence specific sites. Involved in transcriptional regulation by binding to chromatin insulators and preventing interaction between promoter and nearby enhancers and silencers. Acts as transcriptional repressor binding to promoters of vertebrate MYC gene and BAG1 gene. Also binds to the PLK and PIM1 promoters. Acts as a transcriptional activator of APP. Regulates APOA1/C3/A4/A5 gene cluster and controls MHC class II gene expression. Plays an essential role in oocyte and preimplantation embryo development by activating or repressing transcription. Seems to act as tumor suppressor. Plays a critical role in the epigenetic regulation. Participates in the allele-specific gene expression at the imprinted IGF2/H19 gene locus. On the maternal allele, binding within the H19 imprinting control region (ICR) mediates maternally inherited higher-order chromatin conformation to restrict enhancer access to IGF2. Plays a critical role in gene silencing over considerable distances in the genome. Preferentially interacts with unmethylated DNA, preventing spreading of CpG methylation and maintaining methylation-free zones. Inversely, binding to target sites is prevented by CpG methylation. Plays a important role in chromatin remodeling. Can dimerize when it is bound to different DNA sequences, mediating long-range chromatin looping. Mediates interchromosomal association between IGF2/H19 and WSB1/NF1 and may direct distant DNA segments to a common transcription factory. Causes local loss of histone acetylation and gain of histone methylation in the beta-globin locus, without affecting transcription. When bound to chromatin, it provides an anchor point for nucleosomes positioning. Seems to be essential for homologous X-chromosome pairing. May participate with Tsix in establishing a regulatable epigenetic switch for X chromosome inactivation. May play a role in preventing the propagation of stable methylation at the escape genes from X- inactivation. Involved in sister chromatid cohesion. Associates with both centromeres and chromosomal arms during metaphase and required for cohesin localization to CTCF sites. Regulates asynchronous replication of IGF2/H19.	same
CTDSP2	empty	CTDSP2 (CTD (Carboxy-Terminal Domain, RNA Polymerase II, Polypeptide A) Small Phosphatase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTDSP2 include adenosarcoma. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include CTD phosphatase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CTDSPL.	Preferentially catalyzes the dephosphorylation of Ser-5 within the tandem 7 residue repeats in the C-terminal domain (CTD) of the largest RNA polymerase II subunit POLR2A. Negatively regulates RNA polymerase II transcription, possibly by controlling the transition from initiation/capping to processive transcript elongation. Recruited by REST to neuronal genes that contain RE-1 elements, leading to neuronal gene silencing in non-neuronal cells. May contribute to the development of sarcomas.	same
CTDSPL2	empty	CTDSPL2 (CTD (Carboxy-Terminal Domain, RNA Polymerase II, Polypeptide A) Small Phosphatase Like 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Phosphatases. GO annotations related to this gene include phosphoprotein phosphatase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CTDSPL.	Probable phosphatase.	same
CTDSP1	This gene encodes a member of the small C-terminal domain phosphatase (SCP) family of nuclear phosphatases. These proteins play a role in transcriptional regulation through specific dephosphorylation of phosphoserine 5 within tandem heptapeptide repeats of the C-terminal domain of RNA polymerase II. The encoded protein plays a role in neuronal gene silencing in non-neuronal cells, and may also inhibit osteoblast differentiation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]	CTDSP1 (CTD (Carboxy-Terminal Domain, RNA Polymerase II, Polypeptide A) Small Phosphatase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Coregulation of Androgen receptor activity and Signaling by BMP. GO annotations related to this gene include CTD phosphatase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CTDSPL.	Preferentially catalyzes the dephosphorylation of Ser-5 within the tandem 7 residue repeats in the C-terminal domain (CTD) of the largest RNA polymerase II subunit POLR2A. Negatively regulates RNA polymerase II transcription, possibly by controlling the transition from initiation/capping to processive transcript elongation. Recruited by REST to neuronal genes that contain RE-1 elements, leading to neuronal gene silencing in non-neuronal cells.	same
CTDSPL	empty	CTDSPL (CTD (Carboxy-Terminal Domain, RNA Polymerase II, Polypeptide A) Small Phosphatase-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by BMP and Regulation of cytoplasmic and nuclear SMAD2/3 signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include phosphoprotein phosphatase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CTDSP1.	Recruited by REST to neuronal genes that contain RE-1 elements, leading to neuronal gene silencing in non-neuronal cells (By similarity). Preferentially catalyzes the dephosphorylation of Ser-5 within the tandem 7 residue repeats in the C-terminal domain (CTD) of the largest RNA polymerase II subunit POLR2A. Negatively regulates RNA polymerase II transcription, possibly by controlling the transition from initiation/capping to processive transcript elongation.	same
CTF1	The protein encoded by this gene is a secreted cytokine that induces cardiac myocyte hypertrophy in vitro. It has been shown to bind and activate the ILST/gp130 receoptor. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]	CTF1 (Cardiotrophin 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTF1 include neonatal stroke and motor neuron disease. Among its related pathways are Apoptotic Pathways in Synovial Fibroblasts and NFAT and Cardiac Hypertrophy. GO annotations related to this gene include cytokine activity and leukemia inhibitory factor receptor binding.	Induces cardiac myocyte hypertrophy in vitro. Binds to and activates the ILST/gp130 receptor	same
CTDP1	This gene encodes a protein which interacts with the carboxy-terminus of the RAP74 subunit of transcription initiation factor TFIIF, and functions as a phosphatase that processively dephosphorylates the C-terminus of POLR2A (a subunit of RNA polymerase II), making it available for initiation of gene expression. Mutations in this gene are associated with congenital cataracts, facial dysmorphism and neuropathy syndrome (CCFDN). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]	CTDP1 (CTD (Carboxy-Terminal Domain, RNA Polymerase II, Polypeptide A) Phosphatase, Subunit 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTDP1 include congenital cataracts, facial dysmorphism, and neuropathy. Among its related pathways are Disease and Gene Expression. GO annotations related to this gene include DNA-directed RNA polymerase activity and CTD phosphatase activity.	Processively dephosphorylates Ser-2 and Ser-5 of the heptad repeats YSPTSPS in the C-terminal domain of the largest RNA polymerase II subunit. This promotes the activity of RNA polymerase II. Plays a role in the exit from mitosis by dephosphorylating crucial mitotic substrates (USP44, CDC20 and WEE1) that are required for M-phase-promoting factor (MPF)/CDK1 inactivation.	same
CTGF	The protein encoded by this gene is a mitogen that is secreted by vascular endothelial cells. The encoded protein plays a role in chondrocyte proliferation and differentiation, cell adhesion in many cell types, and is related to platelet-derived growth factor. Certain polymorphisms in this gene have been linked with a higher incidence of systemic sclerosis. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]	CTGF (Connective Tissue Growth Factor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTGF include diffuse scleroderma and limited scleroderma. Among its related pathways are NF-KappaB Family Pathway and NF-KappaB Family Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include growth factor activity and integrin binding. An important paralog of this gene is NOV.	Major connective tissue mitoattractant secreted by vascular endothelial cells. Promotes proliferation and differentiation of chondrocytes. Mediates heparin- and divalent cation-dependent cell adhesion in many cell types including fibroblasts, myofibroblasts, endothelial and epithelial cells. Enhances fibroblast growth factor-induced DNA synthesis.	same
CTHRC1	This locus encodes a protein that may play a role in the cellular response to arterial injury through involvement in vascular remodeling. Mutations at this locus have been associated with Barrett esophagus and esophageal adenocarcinoma. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]	CTHRC1 (Collagen Triple Helix Repeat Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTHRC1 include barrett esophagus/esophageal adenocarcinoma and adenocarcinoma. Among its related pathways are Noncanonical Wnt signaling pathway and Wnt signaling network. GO annotations related to this gene include frizzled binding and Wnt-protein binding.	May act as a negative regulator of collagen matrix deposition.	same
CTH	This gene encodes a cytoplasmic enzyme in the trans-sulfuration pathway that converts cystathione derived from methionine into cysteine. Glutathione synthesis in the liver is dependent upon the availability of cysteine. Mutations in this gene cause cystathioninuria. Alternative splicing of this gene results in three transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	CTH (Cystathionine Gamma-Lyase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTH include cystathioninuria and gamma-cystathionase deficiency. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Carbon metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include calmodulin binding and carbon-sulfur lyase activity.	Catalyzes the last step in the trans-sulfuration pathway from methionine to cysteine. Has broad substrate specificity. Converts cystathionine to cysteine, ammonia and 2-oxobutanoate. Converts two cysteine molecules to lanthionine and hydrogen sulfide. Can also accept homocysteine as substrate. Specificity depends on the levels of the endogenous substrates. Generates the endogenous signaling molecule hydrogen sulfide (H2S), and so contributes to the regulation of blood pressure. Acts as a cysteine-protein sulfhydrase by mediating sulfhydration of target proteins: sulfhydration consists of converting -SH groups into -SSH on specific cysteine residues of target proteins such as GAPDH, PTPN1 and NF-kappa-B subunit RELA, thereby regulating their function.	same
CTNNA1	empty	CTNNA1 (Catenin (Cadherin-Associated Protein), Alpha 1, 102kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTNNA1 include diffuse gastric cancer and lobular neoplasia. Among its related pathways are Pathways in cancer and L1CAM interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include structural molecule activity and beta-catenin binding. An important paralog of this gene is CTNNA3.	Associates with the cytoplasmic domain of a variety of cadherins. The association of catenins to cadherins produces a complex which is linked to the actin filament network, and which seems to be of primary importance for cadherins cell-adhesion properties. Can associate with both E- and N-cadherins. Originally believed to be a stable component of E-cadherin/catenin adhesion complexes and to mediate the linkage of cadherins to the actin cytoskeleton at adherens junctions. In contrast, cortical actin was found to be much more dynamic than E-cadherin/catenin complexes and CTNNA1 was shown not to bind to F-actin when assembled in the complex suggesting a different linkage between actin and adherens junctions components. The homodimeric form may regulate actin filament assembly and inhibit actin branching by competing with the Arp2/3 complex for binding to actin filaments. May play a crucial role in cell differentiation	same
CTAGE5	The protein encoded by this gene is a tumor-associated antigen found in cutaneous T-cell lymphoma and several other cancers. Autoantibodies against the encoded protein have been found in some cancers. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]	CTAGE5 (CTAGE Family, Member 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTAGE5 include familial idiopathic basal ganglia calcification and basal ganglia calcification. GO annotations related to this gene include enzyme activator activity. An important paralog of this gene is CTAGE9.	Tumor-associated antigen	same
CTBP2	This gene produces alternative transcripts encoding two distinct proteins. One protein is a transcriptional repressor, while the other isoform is a major component of specialized synapses known as synaptic ribbons. Both proteins contain a NAD+ binding domain similar to NAD+-dependent 2-hydroxyacid dehydrogenases. A portion of the 3' untranslated region was used to map this gene to chromosome 21q21.3; however, it was noted that similar loci elsewhere in the genome are likely. Blast analysis shows that this gene is present on chromosome 10. Several transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2014]	CTBP2 (C-Terminal Binding Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Pathways in cancer and Nanog in Mammalian ESC Pluripotency. GO annotations related to this gene include transcription corepressor activity and oxidoreductase activity, acting on the CH-OH group of donors, NAD or NADP as acceptor. An important paralog of this gene is CTBP1.	Corepressor targeting diverse transcription regulators. Functions in brown adipose tissue (BAT) differentiation (By similarity).	same
CTNNA3	This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the vinculin/alpha-catenin family. The encoded protein plays a role in cell-cell adhesion in muscle cells. Mutations in this gene are associated with arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia, familial 13. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2014]	CTNNA3 (Catenin (Cadherin-Associated Protein), Alpha 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTNNA3 include arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia, familial, 13 and familial isolated arrhythmogenic ventricular dysplasia, right dominant form. Among its related pathways are Pathways in cancer and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include structural molecule activity and cadherin binding. An important paralog of this gene is CTNNA2.	May be involved in formation of stretch-resistant cell-cell adhesion complexes.	same
CTNNBIP1	The protein encoded by this gene binds CTNNB1 and prevents interaction between CTNNB1 and TCF family members. The encoded protein is a negative regulator of the Wnt signaling pathway. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CTNNBIP1 (Catenin, Beta Interacting Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTNNBIP1 include adenomatous polyposis coli. Among its related pathways are Regulation of Wnt-mediated beta catenin signaling and target gene transcription and Wnt signaling pathway (KEGG). GO annotations related to this gene include beta-catenin binding and armadillo repeat domain binding.	Prevents the interaction between CTNNB1 and TCF family members, and acts as negative regulator of the Wnt signaling pathway.	same
CTNNAL1	empty	CTNNAL1 (Catenin (Cadherin-Associated Protein), Alpha-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include structural molecule activity and cadherin binding. An important paralog of this gene is CTNNA3.	May modulate the Rho pathway signaling by providing a scaffold for the Lbc Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factor (ARHGEF1)	same
CTNNA2	empty	CTNNA2 (Catenin (Cadherin-Associated Protein), Alpha 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTNNA2 include benign schwannoma. Among its related pathways are Pathways in cancer and L1CAM interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include structural constituent of cytoskeleton and cadherin binding. An important paralog of this gene is CTNNA3.	May function as a linker between cadherin adhesion receptors and the cytoskeleton to regulate cell-cell adhesion and differentiation in the nervous system. Regulates morphological plasticity of synapses and cerebellar and hippocampal lamination during development. Functions in the control of startle modulation (By similarity).	same
CTLA4	This gene is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily and encodes a protein which transmits an inhibitory signal to T cells. The protein contains a V domain, a transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic tail. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. The membrane-bound isoform functions as a homodimer interconnected by a disulfide bond, while the soluble isoform functions as a monomer. Mutations in this gene have been associated with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, Graves disease, Hashimoto thyroiditis, celiac disease, systemic lupus erythematosus, thyroid-associated orbitopathy, and other autoimmune diseases. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CTLA4 (Cytotoxic T-Lymphocyte-Associated Protein 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTLA4 include hashimoto thyroiditis and diabetes mellitus, insulin-dependent, 12. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and TCR Signaling (Qiagen). An important paralog of this gene is CD28.	Inhibitory receptor acting as a major negative regulator of T-cell responses. The affinity of CTLA4 for its natural B7 family ligands, CD80 and CD86, is considerably stronger than the affinity of their cognate stimulatory coreceptor CD28.	same
CTNNBL1	The protein encoded by this gene is a component of the pre-mRNA-processing factor 19-cell division cycle 5-like (PRP19-CDC5L) protein complex, which activates pre-mRNA splicing and is an integral part of the spliceosome. The encoded protein is also a nuclear localization sequence binding protein, and binds to activation-induced deaminase and is important for antibody diversification. This gene may also be associated with the development of obesity. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A pseudogene of this gene has been defined on the X chromosome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]	CTNNBL1 (Catenin, Beta Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTNNBL1 include obesity. Among its related pathways are Spliceosome. GO annotations related to this gene include enzyme binding.	Component of the PRP19-CDC5L complex that forms an integral part of the spliceosome and is required for activating pre-mRNA splicing. Participates in AID/AICDA-mediated Ig class switching recombination (CSR). May induce apoptosis	same
CTPS2	The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the formation of CTP from UTP with the concomitant deamination of glutamine to glutamate. This protein is the rate-limiting enzyme in the synthesis of cytosine nucleotides, which play an important role in various metabolic processes and provide the precursors necessary for the synthesis of RNA and DNA. Cancer cells that exhibit increased cell proliferation also exhibit an increased activity of this encoded protein. Thus, this protein is an attractive target for selective chemotherapy. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2013]	CTPS2 (CTP Synthase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. An important paralog of this gene is CTPS1.	Catalyzes the ATP-dependent amination of UTP to CTP with either L-glutamine or ammonia as the source of nitrogen. Constitutes the rate-limiting enzyme in the synthesis of cytosine nucleotides.	same
CTNNB1	The protein encoded by this gene is part of a complex of proteins that constitute adherens junctions (AJs). AJs are necessary for the creation and maintenance of epithelial cell layers by regulating cell growth and adhesion between cells. The encoded protein also anchors the actin cytoskeleton and may be responsible for transmitting the contact inhibition signal that causes cells to stop dividing once the epithelial sheet is complete. Finally, this protein binds to the product of the APC gene, which is mutated in adenomatous polyposis of the colon. Mutations in this gene are a cause of colorectal cancer (CRC), pilomatrixoma (PTR), medulloblastoma (MDB), and ovarian cancer. Three transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]	CTNNB1 (Catenin (Cadherin-Associated Protein), Beta 1, 88kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTNNB1 include mental retardation, autosomal dominant 19 and colorectal adenomatous polyposis, autosomal recessive, with pilomatricomas. Among its related pathways are Ras signaling pathway and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and protein kinase binding. An important paralog of this gene is JUP.	Key downstream component of the canonical Wnt signaling pathway. In the absence of Wnt, forms a complex with AXIN1, AXIN2, APC, CSNK1A1 and GSK3B that promotes phosphorylation on N-terminal Ser and Thr residues and ubiquitination of CTNNB1 via BTRC and its subsequent degradation by the proteasome. In the presence of Wnt ligand, CTNNB1 is not ubiquitinated and accumulates in the nucleus, where it acts as a coactivator for transcription factors of the TCF/LEF family, leading to activate Wnt responsive genes. Involved in the regulation of cell adhesion. Acts as a negative regulator of centrosome cohesion. Involved in the CDK2/PTPN6/CTNNB1/CEACAM1 pathway of insulin internalization. Blocks anoikis of malignant kidney and intestinal epithelial cells and promotes their anchorage-independent growth by down-regulating DAPK2. Disrupts PML function and PML-NB formation by inhibiting RANBP2-mediated sumoylation of PML (PubMed:17524503, PubMed:18077326, PubMed:18086858, PubMed:18957423, PubMed:21262353, PubMed:22647378, PubMed:22699938, PubMed:22155184). Promotes neurogenesis by maintaining sympathetic neuroblasts within the cell cycle (By similarity).	same
CTNND1	This gene encodes a member of the Armadillo protein family, which function in adhesion between cells and signal transduction. Multiple translation initiation codons and alternative splicing result in many different isoforms being translated. Not all of the full-length natures of the described transcript variants have been determined. Read-through transcription also exists between this gene and the neighboring upstream thioredoxin-related transmembrane protein 2 (TMX2) gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]	CTNND1 (Catenin (Cadherin-Associated Protein), Delta 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTNND1 include sarcomatoid renal cell carcinoma and lobular neoplasia. Among its related pathways are Ras signaling pathway and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and protein phosphatase binding. An important paralog of this gene is PKP3.	Binds to and inhibits the transcriptional repressor ZBTB33, which may lead to activation of target genes of the Wnt signaling pathway (By similarity). Associates with and regulates the cell adhesion properties of both C-, E- and N-cadherins, being critical for their surface stability. Implicated both in cell transformation by SRC and in ligand-induced receptor signaling through the EGF, PDGF, CSF-1 and ERBB2 receptors. Promotes GLIS2 C-terminal cleavage.	same
CTPS	This gene encodes an enzyme responsible for the catalytic conversion of UTP (uridine triphosphate) to CTP (cytidine triphospate). This reaction is an important step in the biosynthesis of phospholipids and nucleic acids. Activity of this proten is important in the immune system, and loss of function of this gene has been associated with immunodeficiency. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]	CTPS1 (CTP Synthase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTPS1 include immunodeficiency 24. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include CTP synthase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CTPS2.	This enzyme is involved in the de novo synthesis of CTP, a precursor of DNA, RNA and phospholipids. Catalyzes the ATP-dependent amination of UTP to CTP with either L-glutamine or ammonia as a source of nitrogen. This enzyme and its product, CTP, play a crucial role in the proliferation of activated lymphocytes and therefore in immunity.	diff
CTRL	empty	CTRL (Chymotrypsin-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTRL include netherton syndrome and severe acute respiratory syndrome. Among its related pathways are Pancreatic secretion and Protein digestion and absorption. GO annotations related to this gene include serine-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CELA2B.	empty	same
CTRB2	empty	CTRB2 (Chymotrypsinogen B2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Disease and Degradation of the extracellular matrix. GO annotations related to this gene include serine-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CELA2B.	empty	same
CTNS	This gene encodes a seven-transmembrane domain protein that functions to transport cystine out of lysosomes. Its activity is driven by the H+ electrochemical gradient of the lysosomal membrane. Mutations in this gene cause cystinosis, a lysosomal storage disorder. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009]	CTNS (Cystinosin, Lysosomal Cystine Transporter) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTNS include cystinosis, nephropathic and cystinosis, late-onset juvenile or adolescent nephropathic. Among its related pathways are Lysosome. GO annotations related to this gene include L-cystine transmembrane transporter activity.	Cystine/H(+) symporter thought to transport cystine out of lysosomes. Plays an important role in melanin synthesis, possibly by preventing melanosome acidification and subsequent degradation of tyrosinase TYR.	same
CTSB	The protein encoded by this gene is a lysosomal cysteine proteinase composed of a dimer of disulfide-linked heavy and light chains, both produced from a single protein precursor. It is also known as amyloid precursor protein secretase and is involved in the proteolytic processing of amyloid precursor protein (APP). Incomplete proteolytic processing of APP has been suggested to be a causative factor in Alzheimer disease, the most common cause of dementia. Overexpression of the encoded protein, which is a member of the peptidase C1 family, has been associated with esophageal adenocarcinoma and other tumors. At least five transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CTSB (Cathepsin B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTSB include occlusion of gallbladder and tropical calcific pancreatitis. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Degradation of the extracellular matrix. GO annotations related to this gene include cysteine-type peptidase activity and cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is TINAG.	Thiol protease which is believed to participate in intracellular degradation and turnover of proteins. Has also been implicated in tumor invasion and metastasis	same
CTNND2	This gene encodes an adhesive junction associated protein of the armadillo/beta-catenin superfamily and is implicated in brain and eye development and cancer formation. The protein encoded by this gene promotes the disruption of E-cadherin based adherens junction to favor cell spreading upon stimulation by hepatocyte growth factor. This gene is overexpressed in prostate adenocarcinomas and is associated with decreased expression of tumor suppressor E-cadherin in this tissue. This gene resides in a region of the short arm of chromosome 5 that is deleted in Cri du Chat syndrome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2013]	CTNND2 (Catenin (Cadherin-Associated Protein), Delta 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTNND2 include cri-du-chat syndrome. An important paralog of this gene is PKP3.	Functions as a transcriptional activator when bound to ZBTB33 (By similarity). May be involved in neuronal cell adhesion and tissue morphogenesis and integrity by regulating adhesion molecules.	same
CTRB1	The protein encoded by this gene is one of a family of serine proteases that is secreted into the gastrointestinal tract as an inactive precursor, which is activated by proteolytic cleavage with trypsin. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]	CTRB1 (Chymotrypsinogen B1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Disease and Degradation of the extracellular matrix. GO annotations related to this gene include serine-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CELA2B.	empty	same
CTR9	CTR9, parafibromin (CDC73; MIM 607393), LEO1 (MIM 610507), and PAF1 (MIM 610506) form the PAF protein complex, which associates with the RNA polymerase II subunit POLR2A (MIM 180660) and with a histone methyltransferase complex (Rozenblatt-Rosen et al., 2005 [PubMed 15632063]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CTR9 (CTR9, Paf1/RNA Polymerase II Complex Component) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Chromatin Regulation / Acetylation. GO annotations related to this gene include SH2 domain binding.	Component of the PAF1 complex (PAF1C) which has multiple functions during transcription by RNA polymerase II and is implicated in regulation of development and maintenance of embryonic stem cell pluripotency. PAF1C associates with RNA polymerase II through interaction with POLR2A CTD non-phosphorylated and Ser-2- and Ser-5-phosphorylated forms and is involved in transcriptional elongation, acting both indepentently and synergistically with TCEA1 and in cooperation with the DSIF complex and HTATSF1. PAF1C is required for transcription of Hox and Wnt target genes. PAF1C is involved in hematopoiesis and stimulates transcriptional activity of KMT2A/MLL1; it promotes leukemogenesis through association with KMT2A/MLL1-rearranged oncoproteins, such as KMT2A/MLL1-MLLT3/AF9 and KMT2A/MLL1-MLLT1/ENL. PAF1C is involved in histone modifications such as ubiquitination of histone H2B and methylation on histone H3 Lys-4 (H3K4me3). PAF1C recruits the RNF20/40 E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex and the E2 enzyme UBE2A or UBE2B to chromatin which mediate monoubiquitination of Lys-120 of histone H2B (H2BK120ub1); UB2A/B-mediated H2B ubiquitination is proposed to be coupled to transcription. PAF1C is involved in mRNA 3 end formation probably through association with cleavage and poly(A) factors. In case of infection by influenza A strain H3N2, PAF1C associates with viral NS1 protein, thereby regulating gene transcription. Required for mono- and trimethylation on histone H3 Lys-4 (H3K4me3) and dimethylation on histone H3 Lys-79 (H3K4me3). Required for Hox gene transcription. Required for the trimethylation of histone H3 Lys-4 (H3K4me3) on genes involved in stem cell pluripotency; this function is synergistic with CXXC1 indicative for an involvement of the SET1 complex. Involved in transcriptional regulation of IL6-responsive genes and in JAK-STAT pathway; may regulate DNA-association of STAT3 (By similarity).	same
CTSC	The protein encoded by this gene, a member of the peptidase C1 family, is a lysosomal cysteine proteinase that appears to be a central coordinator for activation of many serine proteinases in immune/inflammatory cells. It is composed of a dimer of disulfide-linked heavy and light chains, both produced from a single protein precursor, and a residual portion of the propeptide acts as an intramolecular chaperone for the folding and stabilization of the mature enzyme. This enzyme requires chloride ions for activity and can degrade glucagon. Defects in the encoded protein have been shown to be a cause of Papillon-Lefevre syndrome, an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by palmoplantar keratosis and periodontitis. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CTSC (Cathepsin C) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTSC include papillon-lefevre syndrome and haim-munk syndrome. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Lysosome. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and cysteine-type peptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CTSW.	Thiol protease. Has dipeptidylpeptidase activity. Active against a broad range of dipeptide substrates composed of both polar and hydrophobic amino acids. Proline cannot occupy the P1 position and arginine cannot occupy the P2 position of the substrate. Can act as both an exopeptidase and endopeptidase. Activates serine proteases such as elastase, cathepsin G and granzymes A and B. Can also activate neuraminidase and factor XIII.	same
CTSA	This gene encodes a glycoprotein which associates with lysosomal enzymes beta-galactosidase and neuraminidase to form a complex of high molecular weight multimers. The formation of this complex provides a protective role for stability and activity. Deficiencies in this gene are linked to multiple forms of galactosialidosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CTSA (Cathepsin A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTSA include galactosialidosis and ring chromosome 20. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Sphingolipid metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include enzyme activator activity and serine-type carboxypeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CPVL.	Protective protein appears to be essential for both the activity of beta-galactosidase and neuraminidase, it associates with these enzymes and exerts a protective function necessary for their stability and activity. This protein is also a carboxypeptidase and can deamidate tachykinins.	same
CTCFL	CCCTC-binding factor (CTCF), an 11-zinc-finger factor involved in gene regulation, utilizes different zinc fingers to bind varying DNA target sites. CTCF forms methylation-sensitive insulators that regulate X-chromosome inactivation. This gene is a paralog of CTCF and appears to be expressed primarily in the cytoplasm of spermatocytes, unlike CTCF which is expressed primarily in the nucleus of somatic cells. CTCF and the protein encoded by this gene are normally expressed in a mutually exclusive pattern that correlates with resetting of methylation marks during male germ cell differentiation. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012]	CTCFL (CCCTC-Binding Factor (Zinc Finger Protein)-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Chromatin Regulation / Acetylation. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding and histone binding. An important paralog of this gene is HINFP.	Testis-specific DNA binding protein responsible for insulator function, nuclear architecture and transcriptional control, which probably acts by recruiting epigenetic chromatin modifiers. Plays a key role in gene imprinting in male germline, by participating in the establishment of differential methylation at the IGF2/H19 imprinted control region (ICR). Directly binds the unmethylated H19 ICR and recruits the PRMT7 methyltransferase, leading to methylate histone H4 Arg-3 to form H4R3sme2. This probably leads to recruit de novo DNA methyltransferases at these sites (By similarity). Seems to act as tumor suppressor. In association with DNMT1 and DNMT3B, involved in activation of BAG1 gene expression by binding to its promoter. Required for dimethylation of H3 lysine 4 (H3K4me2) of MYC and BRCA1 promoters.	same
CTRC	This gene encodes a member of the peptidase S1 family. The encoded protein is a serum calcium-decreasing factor that has chymotrypsin-like protease activity. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed, but their full-length nature has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CTRC (Chymotrypsin C (Caldecrin)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTRC include ctrc-related hereditary pancreatitis and pancreatitis, hereditary. GO annotations related to this gene include serine-type endopeptidase activity and peptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CELA2B.	Regulates activation and degradation of trypsinogens and procarboxypeptidases by targeting specific cleavage sites within their zymogen precursors. Has chymotrypsin-type protease activity and hypocalcemic activity.	same
CTSD	This gene encodes a lysosomal aspartyl protease composed of a dimer of disulfide-linked heavy and light chains, both produced from a single protein precursor. This proteinase, which is a member of the peptidase C1 family, has a specificity similar to but narrower than that of pepsin A. Transcription of this gene is initiated from several sites, including one which is a start site for an estrogen-regulated transcript. Mutations in this gene are involved in the pathogenesis of several diseases, including breast cancer and possibly Alzheimer disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CTSD (Cathepsin D) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTSD include ceroid lipofuscinosis, neuronal, 10 and congenital neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Degradation of the extracellular matrix. GO annotations related to this gene include aspartic-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is BACE1.	Acid protease active in intracellular protein breakdown. Involved in the pathogenesis of several diseases such as breast cancer and possibly Alzheimer disease	same
CTSG	The protein encoded by this gene, a member of the peptidase S1 protein family, is found in azurophil granules of neutrophilic polymorphonuclear leukocytes. The encoded protease has a specificity similar to that of chymotrypsin C, and may participate in the killing and digestion of engulfed pathogens, and in connective tissue remodeling at sites of inflammation. In addition, the encoded protein is antimicrobial, with bacteriocidal activity against S. aureus and N. gonorrhoeae. Transcript variants utilizing alternative polyadenylation signals exist for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	CTSG (Cathepsin G) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTSG include amelanotic melanoma and acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis. Among its related pathways are Degradation of the extracellular matrix and Lysosome. GO annotations related to this gene include serine-type endopeptidase activity and peptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ELANE.	Serine protease with trypsin- and chymotrypsin-like specificity. Cleaves complement C3. Has antibacterial activity against the Gram-negative bacterium P.aeruginosa, antibacterial activity is inhibited by LPS from P.aeruginosa, Z-Gly-Leu-Phe-CH2Cl and phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride.	same
CTSK	The protein encoded by this gene is a lysosomal cysteine proteinase involved in bone remodeling and resorption. This protein, which is a member of the peptidase C1 protein family, is predominantly expressed in osteoclasts. However, the encoded protein is also expressed in a significant fraction of human breast cancers, where it could contribute to tumor invasiveness. Mutations in this gene are the cause of pycnodysostosis, an autosomal recessive disease characterized by osteosclerosis and short stature. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2013]	CTSK (Cathepsin K) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTSK include pycnodysostosis and osteomyelitis. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Degradation of the extracellular matrix. GO annotations related to this gene include cysteine-type peptidase activity and cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CTSW.	Closely involved in osteoclastic bone resorption and may participate partially in the disorder of bone remodeling. Displays potent endoprotease activity against fibrinogen at acid pH. May play an important role in extracellular matrix degradation	same
CTSH	The protein encoded by this gene is a lysosomal cysteine proteinase important in the overall degradation of lysosomal proteins. It is composed of a dimer of disulfide-linked heavy and light chains, both produced from a single protein precursor. The encoded protein, which belongs to the peptidase C1 protein family, can act both as an aminopeptidase and as an endopeptidase. Increased expression of this gene has been correlated with malignant progression of prostate tumors. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]	CTSH (Cathepsin H) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTSH include thyroid crisis and narcolepsy. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Lysosome. GO annotations related to this gene include serine-type endopeptidase activity and cysteine-type peptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CTSW.	Important for the overall degradation of proteins in lysosomes	same
CTSL3	empty	CTSL3P (Cathepsin L Family Member 3, Pseudogene) is a Pseudogene. GO annotations related to this gene include cysteine-type peptidase activity.	empty	diff
CTSL2	The protein encoded by this gene, a member of the peptidase C1 family, is a lysosomal cysteine proteinase that may play an important role in corneal physiology. This gene is expressed in colorectal and breast carcinomas but not in normal colon, mammary gland, or peritumoral tissues, suggesting a possible role for this gene in tumor processes. Alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]	CTSV (Cathepsin V) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTSV include osteoarthritis and atherosclerosis. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Endochondral Ossification. GO annotations related to this gene include protein complex binding and cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CTSW.	Cysteine protease. May have an important role in corneal physiology.	diff
CTSW	The protein encoded by this gene, a member of the peptidase C1 family, is a cysteine proteinase that may have a specific function in the mechanism or regulation of T-cell cytolytic activity. The encoded protein is found associated with the membrane inside the endoplasmic reticulum of natural killer and cytotoxic T-cells. Expression of this gene is up-regulated by interleukin-2. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CTSW (Cathepsin W) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTSW include autoimmune atrophic gastritis. Among its related pathways are Lysosome. GO annotations related to this gene include cysteine-type peptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CTSV.	May have a specific function in the mechanism or regulation of T-cell cytolytic activity	same
CTSL1	The protein encoded by this gene is a lysosomal cysteine proteinase that plays a major role in intracellular protein catabolism. Its substrates include collagen and elastin, as well as alpha-1 protease inhibitor, a major controlling element of neutrophil elastase activity. The encoded protein has been implicated in several pathologic processes, including myofibril necrosis in myopathies and in myocardial ischemia, and in the renal tubular response to proteinuria. This protein, which is a member of the peptidase C1 family, is a dimer composed of disulfide-linked heavy and light chains, both produced from a single protein precursor. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]	CTSL (Cathepsin L) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTSL include osteoarthritis and metachromatic leukodystrophy. Among its related pathways are Proteoglycans in cancer and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. GO annotations related to this gene include cysteine-type peptidase activity and cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CTSW.	Important for the overall degradation of proteins in lysosomes	diff
CTSZ	The protein encoded by this gene is a lysosomal cysteine proteinase and member of the peptidase C1 family. It exhibits both carboxy-monopeptidase and carboxy-dipeptidase activities. The encoded protein has also been known as cathepsin X and cathepsin P. This gene is expressed ubiquitously in cancer cell lines and primary tumors and, like other members of this family, may be involved in tumorigenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]	CTSZ (Cathepsin Z) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Lysosome and Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein. GO annotations related to this gene include cysteine-type peptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CTSW.	Exhibits carboxy-monopeptidase as well as carboxy-dipeptidase activity	same
CTSO	The protein encoded by the gene is a cysteine proteinase and a member of the papain superfamily. This proteolytic enzyme is involved in cellular protein degradation and turnover. The recombinant form of this enzyme was shown to degrade synthetic peptides typically used as substrates for cysteine proteinases and its proteolytic activity was abolished by an inhibitor of cyteine proteinase. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CTSO (Cathepsin O) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Lysosome. GO annotations related to this gene include cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CTSW.	Proteolytic enzyme possibly involved in normal cellular protein degradation and turnover	same
CTTNBP2NL	empty	CTTNBP2NL (CTTNBP2 N-Terminal Like) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CTTNBP2.	empty	same
CTTN	This gene is overexpressed in breast cancer and squamous cell carcinomas of the head and neck. The encoded protein is localized in the cytoplasm and in areas of the cell-substratum contacts. This gene has two roles: (1) regulating the interactions between components of adherens-type junctions and (2) organizing the cytoskeleton and cell adhesion structures of epithelia and carcinoma cells. During apoptosis, the encoded protein is degraded in a caspase-dependent manner. The aberrant regulation of this gene contributes to tumor cell invasion and metastasis. Three splice variants that encode different isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	CTTN (Cortactin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTTN include ethmoid sinus adenocarcinoma and ampulla of vater adenocarcinoma. Among its related pathways are Proteoglycans in cancer and N-cadherin signaling events. An important paralog of this gene is DBN1.	Contributes to the organization of the actin cytoskeleton and cell shape (PubMed:21296879). Plays a role in the formation of lamellipodia and in cell migration. Plays a role in the regulation of neuron morphology, axon growth and formation of neuronal growth cones (By similarity). Through its interaction with CTTNBP2, involved in the regulation of neuronal spine density (By similarity). Plays a role in the invasiveness of cancer cells, and the formation of metastases (PubMed:16636290). Plays a role in focal adhesion assembly and turnover (By similarity). In complex with ABL1 and MYLK regulates cortical actin-based cytoskeletal rearrangement critical to sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P)-mediated endothelial cell (EC) barrier enhancement (PubMed:20861316). Plays a role in intracellular protein transport and endocytosis, and in modulating the levels of potassium channels present at the cell membrane (PubMed:17959782). Plays a role in receptor-mediated endocytosis via clathrin-coated pits (By similarity). Required for stabilization of KCNH1 channels at the cell membrane (PubMed:23144454).	same
CTSE	The protein encoded by this gene is a gastric aspartyl protease that functions as a disulfide-linked homodimer. This protease, which is a member of the peptidase C1 family, has a specificity similar to that of pepsin A and cathepsin D. It is an intracellular proteinase that does not appear to be involved in the digestion of dietary protein and is found in highest concentration in the surface of epithelial mucus-producing cells of the stomach. It is the first aspartic proteinase expressed in the fetal stomach and is found in more than half of gastric cancers. It appears, therefore, to be an oncofetal antigen. Transcript variants utilizing alternative polyadenylation signals and two transcript variants encoding different isoforms exist for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CTSE (Cathepsin E) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTSE include pancreatic cancer. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Lysosome. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and aspartic-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is BACE1.	May have a role in immune function. Probably involved in the processing of antigenic peptides during MHC class II-mediated antigen presentation. May play a role in activation-induced lymphocyte depletion in the thymus, and in neuronal degeneration and glial cell activation in the brain.	same
CTU1	empty	CTU1 (Cytosolic Thiouridylase Subunit 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Sulfur relay system. GO annotations related to this gene include tRNA binding and transferase activity.	Plays a central role in 2-thiolation of mcm(5)S(2)U at tRNA wobble positions of tRNA(Lys), tRNA(Glu) and tRNA(Gln). Directly binds tRNAs and probably acts by catalyzing adenylation of tRNAs, an intermediate required for 2-thiolation. It is unclear whether it acts as a sulfurtransferase that transfers sulfur from thiocarboxylated URM1 onto the uridine of tRNAs at wobble position.	same
CTSF	Cathepsins are papain family cysteine proteinases that represent a major component of the lysosomal proteolytic system. Cathepsins generally contain a signal sequence, followed by a propeptide and then a catalytically active mature region. The very long (251 amino acid residues) proregion of the cathepsin F precursor contains a C-terminal domain similar to the pro-segment of cathepsin L-like enzymes, a 50-residue flexible linker peptide, and an N-terminal domain predicted to adopt a cystatin-like fold. The cathepsin F proregion is unique within the papain family cysteine proteases in that it contains this additional N-terminal segment predicted to share structural similarities with cysteine protease inhibitors of the cystatin superfamily. This cystatin-like domain contains some of the elements known to be important for inhibitory activity. CTSF encodes a predicted protein of 484 amino acids which contains a 19 residue signal peptide. Cathepsin F contains five potential N-glycosylation sites, and it may be targeted to the endosomal/lysosomal compartment via the mannose 6-phosphate receptor pathway. The cathepsin F gene is ubiquitously expressed, and it maps to chromosome 11q13, close to the gene encoding cathepsin W. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CTSF (Cathepsin F) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTSF include ceroid lipofuscinosis, neuronal, 13, kufs type and adult neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Lysosome. GO annotations related to this gene include cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CTSW.	Thiol protease which is believed to participate in intracellular degradation and turnover of proteins. Has also been implicated in tumor invasion and metastasis	same
CTU2	empty	CTU2 (Cytosolic Thiouridylase Subunit 2 Homolog (S. Pombe)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTU2 include exotropia. Among its related pathways are Sulfur relay system.	Plays a central role in 2-thiolation of mcm(5)S(2)U at tRNA wobble positions of tRNA(Lys), tRNA(Glu) and tRNA(Gln). May act by forming a heterodimer with CTU1/ATPBD3 that ligates sulfur from thiocarboxylated URM1 onto the uridine of tRNAs at wobble position.	same
CTXN1	empty	CTXN1 (Cortexin 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTXN1 include corneal edema. An important paralog of this gene is CTXN2.	May mediate extracellular or intracellular signaling of cortical neurons during forebrain development.	same
CTTNBP2	This gene encodes a protein with six ankyrin repeats and several proline-rich regions. A similar gene in rat interacts with a central regulator of the actin cytoskeleton. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CTTNBP2 (Cortactin Binding Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTTNBP2 include weaver syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include SH3 domain binding. An important paralog of this gene is CTTNBP2NL.	Regulates the dendritic spine distribution of CTTN/cortactin in hippocampal neurons, thus controls dendritic spinogenesis and dendritic spine maintenance.	same
CTSS	The protein encoded by this gene, a member of the peptidase C1 family, is a lysosomal cysteine proteinase that may participate in the degradation of antigenic proteins to peptides for presentation on MHC class II molecules. The encoded protein can function as an elastase over a broad pH range in alveolar macrophages. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]	CTSS (Cathepsin S) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CTSS include cercarial dermatitis. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Degradation of the extracellular matrix. GO annotations related to this gene include cysteine-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CTSW.	Thiol protease. Key protease responsible for the removal of the invariant chain from MHC class II molecules. The bond-specificity of this proteinase is in part similar to the specificities of cathepsin L and cathepsin N	same
CUBN	Cubilin (CUBN) acts as a receptor for intrinsic factor-vitamin B12 complexes. The role of receptor is supported by the presence of 27 CUB domains. Cubulin is located within the epithelium of intestine and kidney. Mutations in CUBN may play a role in autosomal recessive megaloblastic anemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CUBN (Cubilin (Intrinsic Factor-Cobalamin Receptor)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CUBN include megaloblastic anemia-1, finnish type and megaloblastic anemia. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is TLL1.	Cotransporter which plays a role in lipoprotein, vitamin and iron metabolism, by facilitating their uptake. Binds to ALB, MB, Kappa and lambda-light chains, TF, hemoglobin, GC, SCGB1A1, APOA1, high density lipoprotein, and the GIF-cobalamin complex. The binding of all ligands requires calcium. Serves as important transporter in several absorptive epithelia, including intestine, renal proximal tubules and embryonic yolk sac. Interaction with LRP2 mediates its trafficking throughout vesicles and facilitates the uptake of specific ligands like GC, hemoglobin, ALB, TF and SCGB1A1. Interaction with AMN controls its trafficking to the plasma membrane and facilitates endocytosis of ligands. May play an important role in the development of the peri-implantation embryo through internalization of APOA1 and cholesterol. Binds to LGALS3 at the maternal-fetal interface.	same
CUEDC1	empty	CUEDC1 (CUE Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CUL2	empty	CUL2 (Cullin 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are TGF-Beta Pathway and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin protein ligase binding. An important paralog of this gene is CUL1.	Core component of multiple cullin-RING-based ECS (ElonginB/C-CUL2/5-SOCS-box protein) E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complexes, which mediate the ubiquitination of target proteins. May serve as a rigid scaffold in the complex and may contribute to catalysis through positioning of the substrate and the ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme. The E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase activity of the complex is dependent on the neddylation of the cullin subunit and is inhibited by the association of the deneddylated cullin subunit with TIP120A/CAND1 (By similarity). The functional specificity of the ECS complex depends on the substrate recognition component. ECS(VHL) mediates the ubiquitination of hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF).	same
CTXN2	empty	CTXN2 (Cortexin 2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CTXN1.	empty	same
CUL4B	This gene is a member of the cullin family. The encoded protein forms a complex that functions as an E3 ubiquitin ligase and catalyzes the polyubiquitination of specific protein substrates in the cell. The protein interacts with a ring finger protein, and is required for the proteolysis of several regulators of DNA replication including chromatin licensing and DNA replication factor 1 and cyclin E. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CUL4B (Cullin 4B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CUL4B include mental retardation, x-linked, syndromic 15 and mental retardation, x-linked, with short stature, small testes, muscle wasting, and tremor. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Global Genomic NER (GG-NER). GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin protein ligase binding. An important paralog of this gene is CUL1.	Core component of multiple cullin-RING-based E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complexes which mediate the ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of target proteins. The functional specificity of the E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex depends on the variable substrate recognition subunit. CUL4B may act within the complex as a scaffold protein, contributing to catalysis through positioning of the substrate and the ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme. Plays a role as part of the E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex in polyubiquitination of CDT1, histone H2A, histone H3 and histone H4 in response to radiation-induced DNA damage. Targeted to UV damaged chromatin by DDB2 and may be important for DNA repair and DNA replication. Required for ubiquitination of cyclin E, and consequently, normal G1 cell cycle progression. Regulates the mammalian target-of-rapamycin (mTOR) pathway involved in control of cell growth, size and metabolism. Specific CUL4B regulation of the mTORC1-mediated pathway is dependent upon 26S proteasome function and requires interaction between CUL4B and MLST8.	same
CUL5	empty	CUL5 (Cullin 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor activity and calcium channel activity. An important paralog of this gene is CUL1.	Core component of multiple SCF-like ECS (Elongin-Cullin 2/5-SOCS-box protein) E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complexes, which mediate the ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of target proteins. As a scaffold protein may contribute to catalysis through positioning of the substrate and the ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme. The functional specificity of the E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex depends on the variable substrate recognition component. ECS(SOCS1) seems to direct ubiquitination of JAK2. Seems to be involved in proteosomal degradation of p53/TP53 stimulated by adenovirus E1B-55 kDa protein. May form a cell surface vasopressin receptor	same
CUL1	empty	CUL1 (Cullin 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are PI-3K cascade and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin protein ligase binding. An important paralog of this gene is CUL3.	Core component of multiple cullin-RING-based SCF (SKP1-CUL1-F-box protein) E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complexes, which mediate the ubiquitination of proteins involved in cell cycle progression, signal transduction and transcription. In the SCF complex, serves as a rigid scaffold that organizes the SKP1-F-box protein and RBX1 subunits. May contribute to catalysis through positioning of the substrate and the ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme. The E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase activity of the complex is dependent on the neddylation of the cullin subunit and exchange of the substrate recognition component is mediated by TIP120A/CAND1. The functional specificity of the SCF complex depends on the F-box protein as substrate recognition component. SCF(BTRC) and SCF(FBXW11) direct ubiquitination of CTNNB1 and participate in Wnt signaling. SCF(FBXW11) directs ubiquitination of phosphorylated NFKBIA. SCF(BTRC) directs ubiquitination of NFKBIB, NFKBIE, ATF4, SMAD3, SMAD4, CDC25A, FBXO5 and probably NFKB2. SCF(SKP2) directs ubiquitination of phosphorylated CDKN1B/p27kip and is involved in regulation of G1/S transition. SCF(SKP2) directs ubiquitination of ORC1, CDT1, RBL2, ELF4, CDKN1A, RAG2, FOXO1A, and probably MYC and TAL1. SCF(FBXW7) directs ubiquitination of cyclin E, NOTCH1 released notch intracellular domain (NICD), and probably PSEN1. SCF(FBXW2) directs ubiquitination of GCM1. SCF(FBXO32) directs ubiquitination of MYOD1. SCF(FBXO7) directs ubiquitination of BIRC2 and DLGAP5. SCF(FBXO33) directs ubiquitination of YBX1. SCF(FBXO1) directs ubiquitination of BCL6 and DTL but does not seem to direct ubiquitination of TP53. SCF(BTRC) mediates the ubiquitination of NFKBIA at Lys-21 and Lys-22; the degradation frees the associated NFKB1-RELA dimer to translocate into the nucleus and to activate transcription. SCF(CCNF) directs ubiquitination of CCP110. SCF(FBXL3) and SCF(FBXL21) direct ubiquitination of CRY1 and CRY2. SCF(FBXO9) direct ubiquitination of TTI1 and TELO2. SCF(FBXO10) directs ubiquitination of BCL2.	same
CUEDC2	empty	CUEDC2 (CUE Domain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle / Checkpoint Control.	Down-regulates ESR1 protein levels through the ubiquitination-proteasome pathway, regardless of the presence of 17 beta-estradiol. Also involved in 17 beta-estradiol-induced ESR1 degradation. Controls PGR protein levels through a similar mechanism.	same
CUTA	empty	CUTA (CutA Divalent Cation Tolerance Homolog (E. Coli)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include enzyme binding.	May form part of a complex of membrane proteins attached to acetylcholinesterase (AChE)	same
CTXN3	empty	CTXN3 (Cortexin 3) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CTXN1.	empty	same
CUL9	empty	CUL9 (Cullin 9) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin protein ligase binding. An important paralog of this gene is CUL7.	Core component of a Cul9-RING ubiquitin-protein ligase complex, a complex that mediates ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of BIRC5 and is required to maintain microtubule dynamics and genome integrity. Acts downstream of the 3M complex, which inhibits CUL9 activity, leading to prevent ubiquitination of BIRC5 (PubMed:24793696). Cytoplasmic anchor protein in p53/TP53-associated protein complex. Regulates the subcellular localization of p53/TP53 and subsequent function (PubMed:12526791, PubMed:17332328).	same
CUTC	Members of the CUT family of copper transporters are associated with copper homeostasis and are involved in the uptake, storage, delivery, and efflux of copper (Gupta et al., 1995 [PubMed 7635807]; Li et al., 2005 [PubMed 16182249]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CUTC (CutC Copper Transporter) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include copper ion binding.	May play a role in copper homeostasis. Can bind one Cu(1+) per subunit.	same
CUX2	This gene encodes a protein which contains three CUT domains and a homeodomain; both domains are DNA-binding motifs. A similar gene, whose gene product possesses different DNA-binding activities, is located on chromosome on chromosome 7. Two pseudogenes of this gene have been identified on chromosomes 10 and 4. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]	CUX2 (Cut-Like Homeobox 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and sequence-specific DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is ONECUT1.	May be a transcription factor involved in neural specification. Binds to DNA in a sequence-specific manner (By similarity).	same
CUX1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the homeodomain family of DNA binding proteins. It may regulate gene expression, morphogenesis, and differentiation and it may also play a role in the cell cycle progession. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]	CUX1 (Cut-Like Homeobox 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CUX1 include norrie disease. Among its related pathways are Signaling by FGFR and Signaling by FGFR1 mutants. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and chromatin binding. An important paralog of this gene is ONECUT1.	May be involved in intra-Golgi retrograde transport.	same
CUZD1	empty	CUZD1 (CUB And Zona Pellucida-Like Domains 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	CUZD1 antiserum inhibits cell attachment and proliferation of ovarian cancer cells so may be involved in these processes. May also play a role in the uterus during late pregnancy and/or in trypsin activation in pancreatic acinar cells.	same
CUL7	The protein encoded by this gene is a component of an E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex. The encoded protein interacts with TP53, CUL9, and FBXW8 proteins. Defects in this gene are a cause of 3M syndrome type 1 (3M1). Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]	CUL7 (Cullin 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CUL7 include 3-m syndrome 1 and 3-m syndrome, cul7-related. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein. GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin protein ligase binding. An important paralog of this gene is ZZEF1.	Core component of the 3M and Cul7-RING(FBXW8) complexes, which mediates the ubiquitination of target proteins. Core component of the 3M complex, a complex required to regulate microtubule dynamics and genome integrity. It is unclear how the 3M complex regulates microtubules, it could act by controlling the level of a microtubule stabilizer (PubMed:24793695). Interaction with CUL9 is required to inhibit CUL9 activity and ubiquitination of BIRC5 (PubMed:24793696). Core component of a Cul7-RING ubiquitin-protein ligase with FBXW8, which mediates ubiquitination and consequent degradation of target proteins such as GORASP1, IRS1 and MAP4K1/HPK1 (PubMed:21572988, PubMed:24362026). Ubiquitination of GORASP1 regulates Golgi morphogenesis and dendrite patterning in brain (PubMed:21572988). Mediates ubiquitination and degradation of IRS1 in a mTOR-dependent manner: the Cul7-RING(FBXW8) complex recognizes and binds IRS1 previously phosphorylated by S6 kinase (RPS6KB1 or RPS6KB2) (PubMed:18498745). The Cul7-RING(FBXW8) complex also mediates ubiquitination of MAP4K1/HPK1: recognizes and binds autophosphorylated MAP4K1/HPK1, leading to its degradatation, thereby affecting cell proliferation and differentiation (PubMed:24362026). Acts as a regulator in trophoblast cell epithelial-mesenchymal transition and placental development (PubMed:20139075). Does not promote polyubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of p53/TP53 (PubMed:16547496, PubMed:17332328). While the Cul7-RING(FBXW8) and the 3M complexes are associated and involved in common processes, CUL7 and the Cul7-RING(FBXW8) complex may be have additional functions.	same
CWC22	empty	CWC22 (CWC22 Spliceosome-Associated Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CWC22 include malaria. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding.	Required for pre-mRNA splicing and for exon-junction complex (EJC) assembly. Hinders EIF4A3 from non-specifically binding RNA and escorts it to the splicing machinery to promote EJC assembly on mature mRNAs. Through its role in EJC assembly, required for nonsense-mediated mRNA decay.	same
CWC15	empty	CWC15 (CWC15 Spliceosome-Associated Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CWC15 include laryngotracheitis. Among its related pathways are Spliceosome. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding.	Component of the PRP19-CDC5L complex that forms an integral part of the spliceosome and is required for activating pre-mRNA splicing.	same
CWC27	empty	CWC27 (CWC27 Spliceosome-Associated Protein Homolog (S. Cerevisiae)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase activity. An important paralog of this gene is PPIB.	PPIases accelerate the folding of proteins.	same
CWF19L2	empty	CWF19L2 (CWF19-Like 2, Cell Cycle Control (S. Pombe)) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CWF19L1.	empty	same
CUL4A	CUL4A is the ubiquitin ligase component of a multimeric complex involved in the degradation of DNA damage-response proteins (Liu et al., 2009 [PubMed 19481525]).[supplied by OMIM, Oct 2009]	CUL4A (Cullin 4A) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Protein Stability and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin protein ligase binding. An important paralog of this gene is CUL1.	Core component of multiple cullin-RING-based E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complexes which mediate the ubiquitination of target proteins. As a scaffold protein may contribute to catalysis through positioning of the substrate and the ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme. The E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase activity of the complex is dependent on the neddylation of the cullin subunit and is inhibited by the association of the deneddylated cullin subunit with TIP120A/CAND1. The functional specificity of the E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex depends on the variable substrate recognition component. DCX(DET1-COP1) directs ubiquitination of JUN. DCX(DDB2) directs ubiquitination of XPC. DCX(DDB2) ubiquitinates histones H3-H4 and is required for efficient histone deposition during replication-coupled (H3.1) and replication-independent (H3.3) nucleosome assembly, probably by facilitating the transfer of H3 from ASF1A/ASF1B to other chaperones involved in histone deposition. DCX(DTL) plays a role in PCNA-dependent polyubiquitination of CDT1 and MDM2-dependent ubiquitination of TP53 in response to radiation-induced DNA damage and during DNA replication. In association with DDB1 and SKP2 probably is involved in ubiquitination of CDKN1B/p27kip. Is involved in ubiquitination of HOXA9. DCX(DTL) directs autoubiquitination of DTL.	same
CXADRP3	empty	CXADRP3 (Coxsackie Virus And Adenovirus Receptor Pseudogene 3) is a Pseudogene.	empty	same
CX3CR1	Fractalkine is a transmembrane protein and chemokine involved in the adhesion and migration of leukocytes. The protein encoded by this gene is a receptor for fractalkine. The encoded protein also is a coreceptor for HIV-1, and some variations in this gene lead to increased susceptibility to HIV-1 infection and rapid progression to AIDS. Four transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]	CX3CR1 (Chemokine (C-X3-C Motif) Receptor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CX3CR1 include macular degeneration, age-related, 12 and hiv-1. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include chemokine receptor activity and C-X3-C chemokine receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CCR7.	Receptor for the CX3C chemokine fractalkine and mediates both its adhesive and migratory functions. Acts as coreceptor with CD4 for HIV-1 virus envelope protein (in vitro). Isoform 2 and isoform 3 seem to be more potent HIV-1 coreceptors than isoform 1	same
CWC25	This gene encodes a factor that is part of the multi-protein C complex involved in pre-mRNA splicing. Alternatively spliced transcripts have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2012]	CWC25 (CWC25 Spliceosome-Associated Protein Homolog (S. Cerevisiae)) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CXADRP2	empty	CXADRP2 (Coxsackie Virus And Adenovirus Receptor Pseudogene 2) is a Pseudogene.	empty	same
CWH43	empty	CWH43 (Cell Wall Biogenesis 43 C-Terminal Homolog (S. Cerevisiae)) is a Protein Coding gene.	Involved in lipid remodeling during GPI-anchor maturation.	same
CWF19L1	This gene encodes a member of the CWF19 protein family. Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal recessive spinocerebellar ataxia-17 and mild mental retardation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2014]	CWF19L1 (CWF19-Like 1, Cell Cycle Control (S. Pombe)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CWF19L1 include spinocerebellar ataxia, autosomal recessive 17. An important paralog of this gene is CWF19L2.	empty	same
CXADR	The protein encoded by this gene is a type I membrane receptor for group B coxsackieviruses and subgroup C adenoviruses. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. Pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosomes 15, 18, and 21. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]	CXADR (Coxsackie Virus And Adenovirus Receptor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CXADR include hypocalcemia, autosomal dominant and familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Hemostasis. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and PDZ domain binding. An important paralog of this gene is VSIG8.	Component of the epithelial apical junction complex that may function as an homophilic cell adhesion molecule and is essential for tight junction integrity. Also involved in transepithelial migration of leukocytes through adhesive interactions with AMICA1/JAML a transmembrane protein of the plasma membrane of leukocytes. The interaction between both receptors also mediates the activation of gamma-delta T-cells, a subpopulation of T-cells residing in epithelia and involved in tissue homeostasis and repair. Upon epithelial CXADR-binding, AMICA1 induces downstream cell signaling events in gamma-delta T-cells through PI3-kinase and MAP kinases. It results in proliferation and production of cytokines and growth factors by T-cells that in turn stimulate epithelial tissues repair.	same
CX3CL1	empty	CX3CL1 (Chemokine (C-X3-C Motif) Ligand 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CX3CL1 include chorioretinitis and pityriasis rosea. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and chemokine activity.	The soluble form is chemotactic for T-cells and monocytes, but not for neutrophils. The membrane-bound form promotes adhesion of those leukocytes to endothelial cells. May play a role in regulating leukocyte adhesion and migration processes at the endothelium. Binds to CX3CR1.	same
CXCL10	This antimicrobial gene encodes a chemokine of the CXC subfamily and ligand for the receptor CXCR3. Binding of this protein to CXCR3 results in pleiotropic effects, including stimulation of monocytes, natural killer and T-cell migration, and modulation of adhesion molecule expression. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	CXCL10 (Chemokine (C-X-C Motif) Ligand 10) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CXCL10 include peritoneal carcinoma and endotheliitis. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and cAMP-dependent protein kinase regulator activity. An important paralog of this gene is CXCL9.	Chemotactic for monocytes and T-lymphocytes. Binds to CXCR3	same
CXCL12	This antimicrobial gene encodes a stromal cell-derived alpha chemokine member of the intercrine family. The encoded protein functions as the ligand for the G-protein coupled receptor, chemokine (C-X-C motif) receptor 4, and plays a role in many diverse cellular functions, including embryogenesis, immune surveillance, inflammation response, tissue homeostasis, and tumor growth and metastasis. Mutations in this gene are associated with resistance to human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infections. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	CXCL12 (Chemokine (C-X-C Motif) Ligand 12) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CXCL12 include retinal hemangioblastoma and whim syndrome. Among its related pathways are PI-3K cascade and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and chemokine activity.	Chemoattractant active on T-lymphocytes, monocytes, but not neutrophils. Activates the C-X-C chemokine receptor CXCR4 to induce a rapid and transient rise in the level of intracellular calcium ions and chemotaxis. Also binds to atypical chemokine receptor ACKR3, which activates the beta-arrestin pathway and acts as a scavenger receptor for SDF-1. SDF-1-beta(3-72) and SDF-1-alpha(3-67) show a reduced chemotactic activity. Binding to cell surface proteoglycans seems to inhibit formation of SDF-1-alpha(3-67) and thus to preserve activity on local sites. Acts as a positive regulator of monocyte migration and a negative regulator of monocyte adhesion via the LYN kinase. Stimulates migration of monocytes and T-lymphocytes through its receptors, CXCR4 and ACKR3, and decreases monocyte adherence to surfaces coated with ICAM-1, a ligand for beta-2 integrins. SDF1A/CXCR4 signaling axis inhibits beta-2 integrin LFA-1 mediated adhesion of monocytes to ICAM-1 through LYN kinase. Inhibits CXCR4-mediated infection by T-cell line-adapted HIV-1. Plays a protective role after myocardial infarction. Induces down-regulation and internalization of ACKR3 expressed in various cells. Has several critical functions during embryonic development; required for B-cell lymphopoiesis, myelopoiesis in bone marrow and heart ventricular septum formation.	same
CXCL16	empty	CXCL16 (Chemokine (C-X-C Motif) Ligand 16) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CXCL16 include xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis and cholecystitis. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and chemokine activity.	Acts as a scavenger receptor on macrophages, which specifically binds to OxLDL (oxidized low density lipoprotein), suggesting that it may be involved in pathophysiology such as atherogenesis (By similarity). Induces a strong chemotactic response. Induces calcium mobilization. Binds to CXCR6/Bonzo.	same
CXCL13	B lymphocyte chemoattractant, independently cloned and named Angie, is an antimicrobial peptide and CXC chemokine strongly expressed in the follicles of the spleen, lymph nodes, and Peyer's patches. It preferentially promotes the migration of B lymphocytes (compared to T cells and macrophages), apparently by stimulating calcium influx into, and chemotaxis of, cells expressing Burkitt's lymphoma receptor 1 (BLR-1). It may therefore function in the homing of B lymphocytes to follicles. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014]	CXCL13 (Chemokine (C-X-C Motif) Ligand 13) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CXCL13 include thymic hyperplasia and follicular dendritic cell sarcoma. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include protein heterodimerization activity and chemokine activity.	Chemotactic for B-lymphocytes but not for T-lymphocytes, monocytes and neutrophils. Does not induce calcium release in B-lymphocytes. Binds to BLR1/CXCR5	same
CXCL17	empty	CXCL17 (Chemokine (C-X-C Motif) Ligand 17) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Chemokine Superfamily: Human/Mouse Ligand-Receptor Interactions.	Plays a role in angiogenesis and possibly in the development of tumors. May be a housekeeping chemokine regulating recruitment of nonactivated blood monocytes and immature dendritic cells into tissues. May play a role in the innate defense against infections.	same
CXCL1	This antimicrobial gene encodes a member of the CXC subfamily of chemokines. The encoded protein is a secreted growth factor that signals through the G-protein coupled receptor, CXC receptor 2. This protein plays a role in inflammation and as a chemoattractant for neutrophils. Aberrant expression of this protein is associated with the growth and progression of certain tumors. A naturally occurring processed form of this protein has increased chemotactic activity. Alternate splicing results in coding and non-coding variants of this gene. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome 4. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	CXCL1 (Chemokine (C-X-C Motif) Ligand 1 (Melanoma Growth Stimulating Activity, Alpha)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CXCL1 include chronic granulomatous disease and melanoma. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and chemokine activity. An important paralog of this gene is PF4.	Has chemotactic activity for neutrophils. May play a role in inflammation and exerts its effects on endothelial cells in an autocrine fashion. In vitro, the processed forms GRO-alpha(4-73), GRO-alpha(5-73) and GRO-alpha(6-73) show a 30-fold higher chemotactic activity.	same
CXCL6	empty	CXCL6 (Chemokine (C-X-C Motif) Ligand 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CXCL6 include periodontal disease. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include heparin binding and chemokine activity. An important paralog of this gene is PF4.	Chemotactic for neutrophil granulocytes. Signals through binding and activation of its receptors (CXCR1 and CXCR2). In addition to its chemotactic and angiogenic properties, it has strong antibacterial activity against Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria (90-fold-higher when compared to CXCL5 and CXCL7).	same
CXCL2	This antimicrobial gene is part of a chemokine superfamily that encodes secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. The superfamily is divided into four subfamilies based on the arrangement of the N-terminal cysteine residues of the mature peptide. This chemokine, a member of the CXC subfamily, is expressed at sites of inflammation and may suppress hematopoietic progenitor cell proliferation. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	CXCL2 (Chemokine (C-X-C Motif) Ligand 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CXCL2 include acanthamoeba keratitis and stachybotrys chartarum. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include chemokine activity. An important paralog of this gene is PF4.	Produced by activated monocytes and neutrophils and expressed at sites of inflammation. Hematoregulatory chemokine, which, in vitro, suppresses hematopoietic progenitor cell proliferation. GRO-beta(5-73) shows a highly enhanced hematopoietic activity.	same
CUL3	This gene encodes a member of the cullin protein family. The encoded protein plays a critical role in the polyubiquitination and subsequent degradation of specific protein substrates as the core component and scaffold protein of an E3 ubiquitin ligase complex. Complexes including the encoded protein may also play a role in late endosome maturation. Mutations in this gene are a cause of type 2E pseudohypoaldosteronism. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]	CUL3 (Cullin 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CUL3 include pseudohypoaldosteronism, type iie and pseudohypoaldosteronism, type iia. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and ATF-2 transcription factor network. GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin-protein transferase activity and cyclin binding. An important paralog of this gene is CUL1.	Core component of multiple cullin-RING-based BCR (BTB-CUL3-RBX1) E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complexes which mediate the ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of target proteins. As a scaffold protein may contribute to catalysis through positioning of the substrate and the ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme. The E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase activity of the complex is dependent on the neddylation of the cullin subunit and is inhibited by the association of the deneddylated cullin subunit with TIP120A/CAND1 (By similarity). The functional specificity of the BCR complex depends on the BTB domain-containing protein as the substrate recognition component. BCR(KLHL42) is involved in ubiquitination of KATNA1. BCR(SPOP) is involved in ubiquitination of BMI1/PCGF4, BRMS1, H2AFY and DAXX, GLI2 and GLI3. Can also form a cullin-RING-based BCR (BTB-CUL3-RBX1) E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex containing homodimeric SPOPL or the heterodimer formed by SPOP and SPOPL; these complexes have lower ubiquitin ligase activity. BCR(KLHL9-KLHL13) controls the dynamic behavior of AURKB on mitotic chromosomes and thereby coordinates faithful mitotic progression and completion of cytokinesis. BCR(KLHL12) is involved in ER-Golgi transport by regulating the size of COPII coats, thereby playing a key role in collagen export, which is required for embryonic stem (ES) cells division: BCR(KLHL12) acts by mediating monoubiquitination of SEC31 (SEC31A or SEC31B). BCR(KLHL3) acts as a regulator of ion transport in the distal nephron; by mediating ubiquitination of WNK4. The BCR(KLHL20) E3 ubiquitin ligase complex is involved in interferon response and anterograde Golgi to endosome transport: it mediates both ubiquitination leading to degradation and Lys-33-linked ubiquitination (PubMed:20389280, PubMed:21840486, PubMed:21670212, PubMed:24768539). The BCR(KLHL21) E3 ubiquitin ligase complex regulates localization of the chromosomal passenger complex (CPC) from chromosomes to the spindle midzone in anaphase and mediates the ubiquitination of AURKB. The BCR(KLHL22) ubiquitin ligase complex mediates monoubiquitination of PLK1, leading to PLK1 dissociation from phosphoreceptor proteins and subsequent removal from kinetochores, allowing silencing of the spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC) and chromosome segregation. The BCR(KLHL25) ubiquitin ligase complex is involved in translational homeostasis by mediating ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of hypophosphorylated EIF4EBP1 (4E-BP1). Involved in ubiquitination of cyclin E and of cyclin D1 (in vitro) thus involved in regulation of G1/S transition. Involved in the ubiquitination of KEAP1, ENC1 and KLHL41. In concert with ATF2 and RBX1, promotes degradation of KAT5 thereby attenuating its ability to acetylate and activate ATM.	same
CXCL14	This antimicrobial gene belongs to the cytokine gene family which encode secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes. The protein encoded by this gene is structurally related to the CXC (Cys-X-Cys) subfamily of cytokines. Members of this subfamily are characterized by two cysteines separated by a single amino acid. This cytokine displays chemotactic activity for monocytes but not for lymphocytes, dendritic cells, neutrophils or macrophages. It has been implicated that this cytokine is involved in the homeostasis of monocyte-derived macrophages rather than in inflammation. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	CXCL14 (Chemokine (C-X-C Motif) Ligand 14) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CXCL14 include penile neoplasm. Among its related pathways are Akt Signaling and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include chemokine activity.	Potent chemoattractant for neutrophils, and weaker for dendritic cells. Not chemotactic for T-cells, B-cells, monocytes, natural killer cells or granulocytes. Does not inhibit proliferation of myeloid progenitors in colony formation assays.	same
CXCL11	Chemokines are a group of small (approximately 8 to 14 kD), mostly basic, structurally related molecules that regulate cell trafficking of various types of leukocytes through interactions with a subset of 7-transmembrane, G protein-coupled receptors. Chemokines also play fundamental roles in the development, homeostasis, and function of the immune system, and they have effects on cells of the central nervous system as well as on endothelial cells involved in angiogenesis or angiostasis. Chemokines are divided into 2 major subfamilies, CXC and CC. This antimicrobial gene is a CXC member of the chemokine superfamily. Its encoded protein induces a chemotactic response in activated T-cells and is the dominant ligand for CXC receptor-3. The gene encoding this protein contains 4 exons and at least three polyadenylation signals which might reflect cell-specific regulation of expression. IFN-gamma is a potent inducer of transcription of this gene. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014]	CXCL11 (Chemokine (C-X-C Motif) Ligand 11) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CXCL11 include endotheliitis and autoimmune thyroiditis. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include chemokine activity.	Chemotactic for interleukin-activated T-cells but not unstimulated T-cells, neutrophils or monocytes. Induces calcium release in activated T-cells. Binds to CXCR3. May play an important role in CNS diseases which involve T-cell recruitment. May play a role in skin immune responses	same
CXCR2P1	empty	CXCR2P1 (Chemokine (C-X-C Motif) Receptor 2 Pseudogene 1) is a Pseudogene.	empty	same
CXCL9	This antimicrobial gene encodes a protein thought to be involved in T cell trafficking. The encoded protein binds to C-X-C motif chemokine 3 and is a chemoattractant for lymphocytes but not for neutrophils. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	CXCL9 (Chemokine (C-X-C Motif) Ligand 9) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CXCL9 include lymphomatoid granulomatosis and endotheliitis. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include cytokine activity and chemokine activity. An important paralog of this gene is CXCL10.	Cytokine that affects the growth, movement, or activation state of cells that participate in immune and inflammatory response. Chemotactic for activated T-cells. Binds to CXCR3	same
CXCR4	This gene encodes a CXC chemokine receptor specific for stromal cell-derived factor-1. The protein has 7 transmembrane regions and is located on the cell surface. It acts with the CD4 protein to support HIV entry into cells and is also highly expressed in breast cancer cells. Mutations in this gene have been associated with WHIM (warts, hypogammaglobulinemia, infections, and myelokathexis) syndrome. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CXCR4 (Chemokine (C-X-C Motif) Receptor 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CXCR4 include whim syndrome and intraocular lymphoma. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include G-protein coupled receptor activity and ubiquitin protein ligase binding. An important paralog of this gene is CCR7.	Receptor for the C-X-C chemokine CXCL12/SDF-1 that transduces a signal by increasing intracellular calcium ion levels and enhancing MAPK1/MAPK3 activation. Acts as a receptor for extracellular ubiquitin; leading to enhanced intracellular calcium ions and reduced cellular cAMP levels. Involved in hematopoiesis and in cardiac ventricular septum formation. Also plays an essential role in vascularization of the gastrointestinal tract, probably by regulating vascular branching and/or remodeling processes in endothelial cells. Involved in cerebellar development. In the CNS, could mediate hippocampal-neuron survival. Acts as a coreceptor (CD4 being the primary receptor) for HIV-1 X4 isolates and as a primary receptor for some HIV-2 isolates. Promotes Env-mediated fusion of the virus. Binds bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) et mediates LPS-induced inflammatory response, including TNF secretion by monocytes.	same
CXCR5	This gene encodes a multi-pass membrane protein that belongs to the CXC chemokine receptor family. It is expressed in mature B-cells and Burkitt's lymphoma. This cytokine receptor binds to B-lymphocyte chemoattractant (BLC), and is involved in B-cell migration into B-cell follicles of spleen and Peyer patches. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	CXCR5 (Chemokine (C-X-C Motif) Receptor 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CXCR5 include burkitt lymphoma and intraocular lymphoma. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include G-protein coupled receptor activity and C-X-C chemokine receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CCR7.	Cytokine receptor that binds to B-lymphocyte chemoattractant (BLC). Involved in B-cell migration into B-cell follicles of spleen and Peyer patches but not into those of mesenteric or peripheral lymph nodes. May have a regulatory function in Burkitt lymphoma (BL) lymphomagenesis and/or B-cell differentiation	same
CXCR6	empty	CXCR6 (Chemokine (C-X-C Motif) Receptor 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CXCR6 include hiv-1. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include G-protein coupled receptor activity and C-C chemokine receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CCR7.	Receptor for the C-X-C chemokine CXCL16. Used as a coreceptor by SIVs and by strains of HIV-2 and m-tropic HIV-1	same
CXCR3	This gene encodes a G protein-coupled receptor with selectivity for three chemokines, termed CXCL9/Mig (monokine induced by interferon-g), CXCL10/IP10 (interferon-g-inducible 10 kDa protein) and CXCL11/I-TAC (interferon-inducible T cell a-chemoattractant). Binding of chemokines to this protein induces cellular responses that are involved in leukocyte traffic, most notably integrin activation, cytoskeletal changes and chemotactic migration. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. One of the isoforms (CXCR3-B) shows high affinity binding to chemokine, CXCL4/PF4 (PMID:12782716). [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]	CXCR3 (Chemokine (C-X-C Motif) Receptor 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CXCR3 include lichen planus and intermediate uveitis. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include chemokine receptor activity and chemokine binding. An important paralog of this gene is CCR7.	Isoform 1: Receptor for the C-X-C chemokine CXCL9, CXCL10 and CXCL11 and mediates the proliferation, survival and angiogenic activity of human mesangial cells (HMC) through a heterotrimeric G-protein signaling pathway (PubMed:12782716). Binds to CCL21. Probably promotes cell chemotaxis response.	same
CXCR7	This gene encodes a member of the G-protein coupled receptor family. Although this protein was earlier thought to be a receptor for vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), it is now considered to be an orphan receptor, in that its endogenous ligand has not been identified. The protein is also a coreceptor for human immunodeficiency viruses (HIV). Translocations involving this gene and HMGA2 on chromosome 12 have been observed in lipomas. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACKR3 (Atypical Chemokine Receptor 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include coreceptor activity and C-X-C chemokine receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is RXFP4.	Atypical chemokine receptor that controls chemokine levels and localization via high-affinity chemokine binding that is uncoupled from classic ligand-driven signal transduction cascades, resulting instead in chemokine sequestration, degradation, or transcytosis. Also known as interceptor (internalizing receptor) or chemokine-scavenging receptor or chemokine decoy receptor. Acts as a receptor for chemokines CXCL11 and CXCL12/SDF1. Chemokine binding does not activate G-protein-mediated signal transduction but instead induces beta-arrestin recruitment, leading to ligand internalization and activation of MAPK signaling pathway. Required for regulation of CXCR4 protein levels in migrating interneurons, thereby adapting their chemokine responsiveness. In glioma cells, transduces signals via MEK/ERK pathway, mediating resistance to apoptosis. Promotes cell growth and survival. Not involved in cell migration, adhesion or proliferation of normal hematopoietic progenitors but activated by CXCL11 in malignant hemapoietic cells, leading to phosphorylation of ERK1/2 (MAPK3/MAPK1) and enhanced cell adhesion and migration. Plays a regulatory role in CXCR4-mediated activation of cell surface integrins by CXCL12. Required for heart valve development. Acts as coreceptor with CXCR4 for a restricted number of HIV isolates.	diff
CXCR2	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the G-protein-coupled receptor family. This protein is a receptor for interleukin 8 (IL8). It binds to IL8 with high affinity, and transduces the signal through a G-protein activated second messenger system. This receptor also binds to chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 1 (CXCL1/MGSA), a protein with melanoma growth stimulating activity, and has been shown to be a major component required for serum-dependent melanoma cell growth. This receptor mediates neutrophil migration to sites of inflammation. The angiogenic effects of IL8 in intestinal microvascular endothelial cells are found to be mediated by this receptor. Knockout studies in mice suggested that this receptor controls the positioning of oligodendrocyte precursors in developing spinal cord by arresting their migration. This gene, IL8RA, a gene encoding another high affinity IL8 receptor, as well as IL8RBP, a pseudogene of IL8RB, form a gene cluster in a region mapped to chromosome 2q33-q36. Alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]	CXCR2 (Chemokine (C-X-C Motif) Receptor 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CXCR2 include human granulocytic anaplasmosis and classic kaposi sarcoma. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include signal transducer activity and interleukin-8 binding. An important paralog of this gene is CCR7.	Receptor for interleukin-8 which is a powerful neutrophil chemotactic factor. Binding of IL-8 to the receptor causes activation of neutrophils. This response is mediated via a G-protein that activates a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system. Binds to IL-8 with high affinity. Also binds with high affinity to CXCL3, GRO/MGSA and NAP-2	same
CXXC1	Proteins that contain a CXXC motif within their DNA-binding domain, such as CXXC1, recognize CpG sequences and regulate gene expression (Carlone and Skalnik, 2001 [PubMed 11604496]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CXXC1 (CXXC Finger Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and Signaling by FGFR. GO annotations related to this gene include histone methyltransferase activity (H3-K4 specific) and unmethylated CpG binding.	Transcriptional activator that exhibits a unique DNA binding specificity for CpG unmethylated motifs with a preference for CpGG.	same
CXCL3	This antimicrobial gene encodes a member of the CXC subfamily of chemokines. The encoded protein is a secreted growth factor that signals through the G-protein coupled receptor, CXC receptor 2. This protein plays a role in inflammation and as a chemoattractant for neutrophils. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014]	CXCL3 (Chemokine (C-X-C Motif) Ligand 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include chemokine activity. An important paralog of this gene is PF4.	Ligand for CXCR2 (By similarity). Has chemotactic activity for neutrophils. May play a role in inflammation and exert its effects on endothelial cells in an autocrine fashion. In vitro, the processed form GRO-gamma(5-73) shows a fivefold higher chemotactic activity for neutrophilic granulocytes.	same
CXorf21	empty	CXorf21 (Chromosome X Open Reading Frame 21) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CXXC5	empty	CXXC5 (CXXC Finger Protein 5) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include signal transducer activity. An important paralog of this gene is CXXC4.	May indirectly participate in activation of the NF-kappa-B and MAPK pathways. Acts as a mediator of BMP4-mediated modulation of canonical Wnt signaling activity in neural stem cells (By similarity). Required for DNA damage-induced ATM phosphorylation, p53 activation and cell cycle arrest. Involved in myelopoiesis. Transcription factor. Binds to the oxygen responsive element of COX4I2 and represses its transcription under hypoxia conditions (4% oxygen), as well as normoxia conditions (20% oxygen) (PubMed:23303788). May repress COX4I2 transactivation induced by CHCHD2 and RBPJ (PubMed:23303788).	same
CXorf22	While this gene is well-supported by transcript data, no functional information on its protein product is currently available. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]	CFAP47 (Cilia And Flagella Associated Protein 47) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
CXorf1	This intronless gene is expressed in the hippocampus and maps close to a candidate region for several X-linked mental retardation (XLMR) syndromes. It is conserved in primates, cow, and horse, but not found in mouse and rat. The exact function of this gene is not known, but on the basis of its physical location and expression pattern, it is proposed to have an important function in the brain. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]	TMEM257 (Transmembrane Protein 257) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
CXorf26	empty	PBDC1 (Polysaccharide Biosynthesis Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
CXCR1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the G-protein-coupled receptor family. This protein is a receptor for interleukin 8 (IL8). It binds to IL8 with high affinity, and transduces the signal through a G-protein activated second messenger system. Knockout studies in mice suggested that this protein inhibits embryonic oligodendrocyte precursor migration in developing spinal cord. This gene, IL8RB, a gene encoding another high affinity IL8 receptor, as well as IL8RBP, a pseudogene of IL8RB, form a gene cluster in a region mapped to chromosome 2q33-q36. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CXCR1 (Chemokine (C-X-C Motif) Receptor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CXCR1 include acute pyelonephritis and denture stomatitis. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include G-protein coupled receptor activity and interleukin-8 binding. An important paralog of this gene is CCR7.	Receptor to interleukin-8, which is a powerful neutrophils chemotactic factor. Binding of IL-8 to the receptor causes activation of neutrophils. This response is mediated via a G-protein that activate a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system. This receptor binds to IL-8 with a high affinity and to MGSA (GRO) with a low affinity	same
CXorf30	empty	empty	empty	same
CXorf23	empty	CXorf23 (Chromosome X Open Reading Frame 23) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is THRAP3.	empty	same
CXXC4	empty	CXXC4 (CXXC Finger Protein 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CXXC4 include alcohol dependence. Among its related pathways are Wnt signaling pathway (KEGG) and Wnt signaling pathway (KEGG). GO annotations related to this gene include PDZ domain binding. An important paralog of this gene is CXXC5.	Acts as a negative regulator of the Wnt signaling pathway via its interaction with DVL1.	same
CXorf27	This gene encodes a protein shown to interact with huntingtin, which contains an expanded polyglutamine tract in individuals with Huntington's disease (PMID: 9700202). [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	HYPM (Huntingtin Interacting Protein M) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
CXorf38	empty	CXorf38 (Chromosome X Open Reading Frame 38) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CXCL5	This gene encodes a protein that is a member of the CXC subfamily of chemokines. Chemokines, which recruit and activate leukocytes, are classified by function (inflammatory or homeostatic) or by structure. This protein is proposed to bind the G-protein coupled receptor chemokine (C-X-C motif) receptor 2 to recruit neutrophils, to promote angiogenesis and to remodel connective tissues. This protein is thought to play a role in cancer cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. [provided by RefSeq, May 2013]	CXCL5 (Chemokine (C-X-C Motif) Ligand 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CXCL5 include pulmonary sarcoidosis and nonspecific interstitial pneumonia. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include chemokine activity. An important paralog of this gene is PF4.	Involved in neutrophil activation. In vitro, ENA-78(8-78) and ENA-78(9-78) show a threefold higher chemotactic activity for neutrophil granulocytes.	same
CXorf40A	empty	CXorf40A (Chromosome X Open Reading Frame 40A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CXorf40A include intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma. An important paralog of this gene is CXorf40B.	May have an important role of cell protection in inflammation reaction	same
CXorf36	empty	CXorf36 (Chromosome X Open Reading Frame 36) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is C3orf58.	empty	same
CXorf48	empty	CT55 (Cancer/Testis Antigen 55) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
CXorf56	While this gene is well-supported by transcript data, no functional information on its protein products is currently available. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]	CXorf56 (Chromosome X Open Reading Frame 56) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CXorf51	empty	CXorf51A (Chromosome X Open Reading Frame 51A) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CXorf51B.	empty	diff
CXorf50B	empty	FAM226B (Family With Sequence Similarity 226, Member B (Non-Protein Coding)) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the sense_intronic RNA class.	empty	diff
CXorf58	empty	CXorf58 (Chromosome X Open Reading Frame 58) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CXorf57	empty	CXorf57 (Chromosome X Open Reading Frame 57) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CXorf41	empty	PIH1D3 (PIH1 Domain Containing 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with PIH1D3 include sarcoma.	Plays a role in cytoplasmic pre-assembly of axonemal dynein.	diff
CXorf61	empty	CT83 (Cancer/Testis Antigen 83) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CT83 include lung cancer.	empty	diff
CXorf65	empty	CXorf65 (Chromosome X Open Reading Frame 65) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CXorf64	empty	PRR32 (Proline Rich 32) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
CXorf40B	empty	CXorf40B (Chromosome X Open Reading Frame 40B) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CXorf40A.	empty	same
CYB561	empty	CYB561 (Cytochrome B561) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include ferric-chelate reductase activity and transmembrane electron transfer carrier. An important paralog of this gene is CYB561A3.	Secretory vesicle-specific electron transport protein	same
CXorf49B	empty	CXorf49B (Chromosome X Open Reading Frame 49B) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CXorf49.	empty	same
CXorf66	The protein encoded by this gene is predicted to be a type I membrane protein, however, its exact function is not known. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]	CXorf66 (Chromosome X Open Reading Frame 66) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CYB561D1	empty	CYB561D1 (Cytochrome B561 Family, Member D1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000272104.	empty	same
CXorf42	empty	NKAPP1 (NFKB Activating Protein Pseudogene 1) is a Pseudogene.	empty	diff
CYB5D1	empty	CYB5D1 (Cytochrome B5 Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include heme binding.	empty	same
CYB5A	The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane-bound cytochrome that reduces ferric hemoglobin (methemoglobin) to ferrous hemoglobin, which is required for stearyl-CoA-desaturase activity. Defects in this gene are a cause of type IV hereditary methemoglobinemia. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	CYB5A (Cytochrome B5 Type A (Microsomal)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYB5A include methemoglobinemia, type iv and hereditary methemoglobinemia. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include enzyme binding and cytochrome-c oxidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CYB5B.	Cytochrome b5 is a membrane bound hemoprotein which function as an electron carrier for several membrane bound oxygenases	same
CYB561D2	empty	CYB561D2 (Cytochrome B561 Family, Member D2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is CYB561D1.	empty	same
CYB5D2	empty	CYB5D2 (Cytochrome B5 Domain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is NENF.	Heme-binding protein which promotes neuronal but not astrocyte differentiation.	same
CXorf59	While this gene is well-supported by transcript data, no functional information on its protein product is currently available. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009]	CFAP47 (Cilia And Flagella Associated Protein 47) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	diff
CYB5B	empty	CYB5B (Cytochrome B5 Type B (Outer Mitochondrial Membrane)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cytochrome P450 - arranged by substrate type. GO annotations related to this gene include heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYB5A.	Cytochrome b5 is a membrane bound hemoprotein which function as an electron carrier for several membrane bound oxygenases.	same
CYB5R1	empty	CYB5R1 (Cytochrome B5 Reductase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYB5R1 include methemoglobinemia. Among its related pathways are PAK Pathway and Amino sugar and nucleotide sugar metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include cytochrome-b5 reductase activity, acting on NAD(P)H. An important paralog of this gene is CYB5R3.	NADH-cytochrome b5 reductases are involved in desaturation and elongation of fatty acids, cholesterol biosynthesis, drug metabolism, and, in erythrocyte, methemoglobin reduction.	same
CYB5R3	This gene encodes cytochrome b5 reductase, which includes a membrane-bound form in somatic cells (anchored in the endoplasmic reticulum, mitochondrial and other membranes) and a soluble form in erythrocytes. The membrane-bound form exists mainly on the cytoplasmic side of the endoplasmic reticulum and functions in desaturation and elongation of fatty acids, in cholesterol biosynthesis, and in drug metabolism. The erythrocyte form is located in a soluble fraction of circulating erythrocytes and is involved in methemoglobin reduction. The membrane-bound form has both membrane-binding and catalytic domains, while the soluble form has only the catalytic domain. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Mutations in this gene cause methemoglobinemias. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010]	CYB5R3 (Cytochrome B5 Reductase 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYB5R3 include methemoglobinemia, type i and recessive hereditary methemoglobinemia type 1. Among its related pathways are Disease and PAK Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include flavin adenine dinucleotide binding and ADP binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYB5R1.	Desaturation and elongation of fatty acids, cholesterol biosynthesis, drug metabolism, and, in erythrocyte, methemoglobin reduction	same
CYB5R4	NCB5OR is a flavohemoprotein that contains functional domains found in both cytochrome b5 (CYB5A; MIM 613218) and CYB5 reductase (CYB5R3; MIM 613213) (Zhu et al., 1999 [PubMed 10611283]).[supplied by OMIM, Jan 2010]	CYB5R4 (Cytochrome B5 Reductase 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYB5R4 include methemoglobinemia. Among its related pathways are PAK Pathway and Cytochrome P450 - arranged by substrate type. GO annotations related to this gene include heme binding and NAD(P)H oxidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CYB5R1.	NADH-cytochrome b5 reductase involved in endoplasmic reticulum stress response pathway. Plays a critical role in protecting pancreatic beta-cells against oxidant stress, possibly by protecting the cell from excess buildup of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Reduces a variety of substrates in vitro, such as cytochrome c, feericyanide and methemoglobin	same
CYB5RL	empty	CYB5RL (Cytochrome B5 Reductase-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYB5RL include methemoglobinemia. GO annotations related to this gene include cytochrome-b5 reductase activity, acting on NAD(P)H. An important paralog of this gene is CYB5R1.	NADH-cytochrome b5 reductases are involved in desaturation and elongation of fatty acids, cholesterol biosynthesis, drug metabolism, and, in erythrocyte, methemoglobin reduction.	same
CYBB	Cytochrome b (-245) is composed of cytochrome b alpha (CYBA) and beta (CYBB) chain. It has been proposed as a primary component of the microbicidal oxidase system of phagocytes. CYBB deficiency is one of five described biochemical defects associated with chronic granulomatous disease (CGD). In this disorder, there is decreased activity of phagocyte NADPH oxidase; neutrophils are able to phagocytize bacteria but cannot kill them in the phagocytic vacuoles. The cause of the killing defect is an inability to increase the cell's respiration and consequent failure to deliver activated oxygen into the phagocytic vacuole. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYBB (Cytochrome B-245, Beta Polypeptide) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYBB include chronic granulomatous disease, x-linked and immunodeficiency 34, mycobacteriosis, x-linked. Among its related pathways are Disease and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. GO annotations related to this gene include protein heterodimerization activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is NOX5.	Critical component of the membrane-bound oxidase of phagocytes that generates superoxide. It is the terminal component of a respiratory chain that transfers single electrons from cytoplasmic NADPH across the plasma membrane to molecular oxygen on the exterior. Also functions as a voltage-gated proton channel that mediates the H(+) currents of resting phagocytes. It participates in the regulation of cellular pH and is blocked by zinc	same
CYBASC3	empty	CYB561A3 (Cytochrome B561 Family, Member A3) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include oxidoreductase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CYB561.	Ferric-chelate reductase that reduces Fe(3+) to Fe(2+) before its transport from the endosome to the cytoplasm. Probably uses ascorbate as electron donor (By similarity).	diff
CYCSP52	empty	CYCSP52 (Cytochrome C, Somatic Pseudogene 52) is a Pseudogene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class.	empty	same
CYCS	This gene encodes a small heme protein that functions as a central component of the electron transport chain in mitochondria. The encoded protein associates with the inner membrane of the mitochondrion where it accepts electrons from cytochrome b and transfers them to the cytochrome oxidase complex. This protein is also involved in initiation of apoptosis. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal dominant nonsyndromic thrombocytopenia. Numerous processed pseudogenes of this gene are found throughout the human genome.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010]	CYCS (Cytochrome C, Somatic) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYCS include thrombocytopenia 4 and autosomal thrombocytopenia with normal platelets. Among its related pathways are Pathways in cancer and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include iron ion binding and protein serine/threonine phosphatase activity.	Electron carrier protein. The oxidized form of the cytochrome c heme group can accept an electron from the heme group of the cytochrome c1 subunit of cytochrome reductase. Cytochrome c then transfers this electron to the cytochrome oxidase complex, the final protein carrier in the mitochondrial electron-transport chain	same
CYFIP1	empty	CYFIP1 (Cytoplasmic FMR1 Interacting Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYFIP1 include angelman syndrome and fragile x syndrome. Among its related pathways are Regulation of actin cytoskeleton and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include actin filament binding and Rac GTPase binding.	Component of the CYFIP1-EIF4E-FMR1 complex which binds to the mRNA cap and mediates translational repression. In the CYFIP1-EIF4E-FMR1 complex this subunit is an adapter between EIF4E and FMR1. Promotes the translation repression activity of FMR1 in brain probably by mediating its association with EIF4E and mRNA (By similarity). Regulates formation of membrane ruffles and lamellipodia. Plays a role in axon outgrowth. Binds to F-actin but not to RNA. Part of the WAVE complex that regulates actin filament reorganization via its interaction with the Arp2/3 complex. Actin remodeling activity is regulated by RAC1. Regulator of epithelial morphogenesis. May act as an invasion suppressor in cancers.	same
CYFIP2	empty	CYFIP2 (Cytoplasmic FMR1 Interacting Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Regulation of actin cytoskeleton and Regulation of actin cytoskeleton.	Involved in T-cell adhesion and p53/TP53-dependent induction of apoptosis. Does not bind RNA.	same
CYGB	This gene encodes a globin protein found in vertebrate cells. The encoded protein is described as a hexacoordinate hemoglobin which binds ligand differently from the pentacoordinate hemoglobins involved in oxygen transport, and may be involved in protection during oxidative stress. This gene is located on chromosome 17 in the same region as a retinal gene which is mutated in progressive rod-cone degeneration, but in the opposite orientation. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]	CYGB (Cytoglobin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYGB include alveolar soft-part sarcoma. GO annotations related to this gene include iron ion binding and oxygen binding. An important paralog of this gene is MB.	May have a protective function during conditions of oxidative stress. May be involved in intracellular oxygen storage or transfer	same
CYLC1	This gene encodes a sperm head cytoskeletal protein. The encoded protein is associated with the calyx of spermatozoa and spermatids. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2012]	CYLC1 (Cylicin, Basic Protein Of Sperm Head Cytoskeleton 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include structural molecule activity and structural constituent of cytoskeleton. An important paralog of this gene is CYLC2.	Possible architectural role during spermatogenesis. May be involved in spermatid differentiation	same
CYHR1	empty	CYHR1 (Cysteine/Histidine-Rich 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
CYLC2	Cylicin II (CYCL2) is specifically expressed in testis and is part of the cytoskeletal calyx of mammalian sperm heads. Cylicin II may play a role in the morphogenesis of the sperm head. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYLC2 (Cylicin, Basic Protein Of Sperm Head Cytoskeleton 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include structural constituent of cytoskeleton. An important paralog of this gene is CYLC1.	Possible architectural role during spermatogenesis. May be involved in spermatid differentiation	same
CYLD	This gene is encodes a cytoplasmic protein with three cytoskeletal-associated protein-glycine-conserved (CAP-GLY) domains that functions as a deubiquitinating enzyme. Mutations in this gene have been associated with cylindromatosis, multiple familial trichoepithelioma, and Brooke-Spiegler syndrome. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYLD (Cylindromatosis (Turban Tumor Syndrome)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYLD include cylindromatosis, familial and brooke-spiegler syndrome. Among its related pathways are Protein Stability and Wnt / Hedgehog / Notch. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and ubiquitin-specific protease activity.	Protease that specifically cleaves Lys-63-linked polyubiquitin chains. Has endodeubiquitinase activity. Plays an important role in the regulation of pathways leading to NF-kappa-B activation (PubMed:12917689, PubMed:12917691). Contributes to the regulation of cell survival, proliferation and differentiation via its effects on NF-kappa-B activation (PubMed:12917690). Negative regulator of Wnt signaling (PubMed:20227366). Inhibits HDAC6 and thereby promotes acetylation of alpha-tubulin and stabilization of microtubules (PubMed:19893491). Plays a role in the regulation of microtubule dynamics, and thereby contributes to the regulation of cell proliferation, cell polarization, cell migration, and angiogenesis (PubMed:18222923, PubMed:20194890). Required for normal cell cycle progress and normal cytokinesis (PubMed:17495026, PubMed:19893491). Inhibits nuclear translocation of NF-kappa-B. Plays a role in the regulation of inflammation and the innate immune response, via its effects on NF-kappa-B activation (PubMed:18636086). Dispensable for the maturation of intrathymic natural killer cells, but required for the continued survival of immature natural killer cells. Negatively regulates TNFRSF11A signaling and osteoclastogenesis (By similarity). Involved in the regulation of ciliogenesis, allowing ciliary basal bodies to migrate and dock to the plasma membrane; this process does not depend on NF-kappa-B activation (By similarity).	same
CYP11A1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the mitochondrial inner membrane and catalyzes the conversion of cholesterol to pregnenolone, the first and rate-limiting step in the synthesis of the steroid hormones. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. The cellular location of the smaller isoform is unclear since it lacks the mitochondrial-targeting transit peptide. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP11A1 (Cytochrome P450, Family 11, Subfamily A, Polypeptide 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYP11A1 include adrenal insufficiency, congenital, with 46xy sex reversal, partial or complete and 46,xy disorder of sex development - adrenal insufficiency due to cyp11a1 deficiency. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP24A1.	Catalyzes the side-chain cleavage reaction of cholesterol to pregnenolone.	same
CYP11B2	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the mitochondrial inner membrane. The enzyme has steroid 18-hydroxylase activity to synthesize aldosterone and 18-oxocortisol as well as steroid 11 beta-hydroxylase activity. Mutations in this gene cause corticosterone methyl oxidase deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP11B2 (Cytochrome P450, Family 11, Subfamily B, Polypeptide 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYP11B2 include hypoaldosteronism, congenital, due to cmo ii deficiency and hypoaldosteronism, congenital, due to cmo i deficiency. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP11A1.	Preferentially catalyzes the conversion of 11-deoxycorticosterone to aldosterone via corticosterone and 18-hydroxycorticosterone.	same
CYP11B1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the mitochondrial inner membrane and is involved in the conversion of progesterone to cortisol in the adrenal cortex. Mutations in this gene cause congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 11-beta-hydroxylase deficiency. Transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP11B1 (Cytochrome P450, Family 11, Subfamily B, Polypeptide 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYP11B1 include adrenal hyperplasia, congenital, due to 11-beta-hydroxylase deficiency and aldosteronism, glucocorticoid-remediable. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP11A1.	Has steroid 11-beta-hydroxylase activity. In addition to this activity, the 18 or 19-hydroxylation of steroids and the aromatization of androstendione to estrone have also been ascribed to cytochrome P450 XIB	same
CYBRD1	This gene is a member of the cytochrome b(561) family that encodes an iron-regulated protein. It highly expressed in the duodenal brush border membrane. It has ferric reductase activity and is believed to play a physiological role in dietary iron absorption. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYBRD1 (Cytochrome B Reductase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Transport of glucose and other sugars, bile salts and organic acids, metal ions and amine compounds and Mineral absorption. GO annotations related to this gene include ferric-chelate reductase activity and oxidoreductase activity, oxidizing metal ions. An important paralog of this gene is CYB561A3.	Ferric-chelate reductase that reduces Fe(3+) to Fe(2+). Present at the brush border of duodenal enterocytes where it probably reduces dietary Fe(3+) thereby facilitating its transport into the mucosal cells. Uses ascorbate as electron donor. May be involved in extracellular ascorbate recycling in erythrocyte membranes. May also act as a ferrireductase in airway epithelial cells.	same
CYBA	Cytochrome b is comprised of a light chain (alpha) and a heavy chain (beta). This gene encodes the light, alpha subunit which has been proposed as a primary component of the microbicidal oxidase system of phagocytes. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal recessive chronic granulomatous disease (CGD), that is characterized by the failure of activated phagocytes to generate superoxide, which is important for the microbicidal activity of these cells. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYBA (Cytochrome B-245, Alpha Polypeptide) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYBA include chronic granulomatous disease, autosomal, due to deficiency of cyba and chronic granulomatous disease. Among its related pathways are Disease and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. GO annotations related to this gene include protein heterodimerization activity and heme binding.	Critical component of the membrane-bound oxidase of phagocytes that generates superoxide. Associates with NOX3 to form a functional NADPH oxidase constitutively generating superoxide.	same
CYP1A1	This gene, CYP1A1, encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and its expression is induced by some polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), some of which are found in cigarette smoke. The enzyme's endogenous substrate is unknown; however, it is able to metabolize some PAHs to carcinogenic intermediates. The gene has been associated with lung cancer risk. A related family member, CYP1A2, is located approximately 25 kb away from CYP1A1 on chromosome 15. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP1A1 (Cytochrome P450, Family 1, Subfamily A, Polypeptide 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYP1A1 include basal cell carcinoma, multiple and oral cancer. Among its related pathways are AhR pathway (WikiPathways) and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include enzyme binding and iron ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP21A2.	Cytochromes P450 are a group of heme-thiolate monooxygenases. In liver microsomes, this enzyme is involved in an NADPH-dependent electron transport pathway. It oxidizes a variety of structurally unrelated compounds, including steroids, fatty acids, and xenobiotics	same
CYP1A2	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. The protein encoded by this gene localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and its expression is induced by some polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), some of which are found in cigarette smoke. The enzyme's endogenous substrate is unknown; however, it is able to metabolize some PAHs to carcinogenic intermediates. Other xenobiotic substrates for this enzyme include caffeine, aflatoxin B1, and acetaminophen. The transcript from this gene contains four Alu sequences flanked by direct repeats in the 3' untranslated region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP1A2 (Cytochrome P450, Family 1, Subfamily A, Polypeptide 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYP1A2 include toxixity or absent response to clozapine and porphyria cutanea tarda. Among its related pathways are AhR pathway (WikiPathways) and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include enzyme binding and iron ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP21A2.	Cytochromes P450 are a group of heme-thiolate monooxygenases. In liver microsomes, this enzyme is involved in an NADPH-dependent electron transport pathway. It oxidizes a variety of structurally unrelated compounds, including steroids, fatty acids, and xenobiotics. Most active in catalyzing 2-hydroxylation. Caffeine is metabolized primarily by cytochrome CYP1A2 in the liver through an initial N3-demethylation. Also acts in the metabolism of aflatoxin B1 and acetaminophen. Participates in the bioactivation of carcinogenic aromatic and heterocyclic amines. Catalizes the N-hydroxylation of heterocyclic amines and the O-deethylation of phenacetin.	same
CYMP	empty	CYMP (Chymosin Pseudogene) is a Pseudogene.	empty	same
CYP17A1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum. It has both 17alpha-hydroxylase and 17,20-lyase activities and is a key enzyme in the steroidogenic pathway that produces progestins, mineralocorticoids, glucocorticoids, androgens, and estrogens. Mutations in this gene are associated with isolated steroid-17 alpha-hydroxylase deficiency, 17-alpha-hydroxylase/17,20-lyase deficiency, pseudohermaphroditism, and adrenal hyperplasia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP17A1 (Cytochrome P450, Family 17, Subfamily A, Polypeptide 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYP17A1 include 17-alpha-hydroxylase/17,20-lyase deficiency and 17-alpha-hydroxylase deficiency. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP21A2.	Conversion of pregnenolone and progesterone to their 17-alpha-hydroxylated products and subsequently to dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and androstenedione. Catalyzes both the 17-alpha-hydroxylation and the 17,20-lyase reaction. Involved in sexual development during fetal life and at puberty.	same
CYP1B1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. The enzyme encoded by this gene localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and metabolizes procarcinogens such as polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and 17beta-estradiol. Mutations in this gene have been associated with primary congenital glaucoma; therefore it is thought that the enzyme also metabolizes a signaling molecule involved in eye development, possibly a steroid. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP1B1 (Cytochrome P450, Family 1, Subfamily B, Polypeptide 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYP1B1 include glaucoma 3a, primary open angle, congenital, juvenile, or adult onset and cyp1b1-related primary congenital glaucoma. Among its related pathways are MicroRNAs in cancer and AhR pathway (WikiPathways). GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP21A2.	Cytochromes P450 are a group of heme-thiolate monooxygenases. In liver microsomes, this enzyme is involved in an NADPH-dependent electron transport pathway. It oxidizes a variety of structurally unrelated compounds, including steroids, fatty acids, retinoid and xenobiotics. Preferentially oxidizes 17beta-estradiol to the carcinogenic 4-hydroxy derivative, and a variety of procarcinogenic compounds to their activated forms, including polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons. Promotes angiogenesis by removing cellular oxygenation products, thereby decreasing oxidative stress, release of antiangiogenic factor THBS2, then allowing endothelial cells migration, cell adhesion and capillary morphogenesis. These changes are concommitant with the endothelial nitric oxide synthase activity and nitric oxide synthesis. Plays an important role in the regulation of perivascular cell proliferation, migration, and survival through modulation of the intracellular oxidative state and NF-kappa-B expression and/or activity, during angiogenesis. Contributes to oxidative homeostasis and ultrastructural organization and function of trabecular meshwork tissue through modulation of POSTN expression.	same
CYP21A2	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and hydroxylates steroids at the 21 position. Its activity is required for the synthesis of steroid hormones including cortisol and aldosterone. Mutations in this gene cause congenital adrenal hyperplasia. A related pseudogene is located near this gene; gene conversion events involving the functional gene and the pseudogene are thought to account for many cases of steroid 21-hydroxylase deficiency. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP21A2 (Cytochrome P450, Family 21, Subfamily A, Polypeptide 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYP21A2 include adrenal hyperplasia, congenital, due to 21-hydroxylase deficiency and classic congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 21-hydroxylase deficiency, simple virilizing form. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP17A1.	Specifically catalyzes the 21-hydroxylation of steroids. Required for the adrenal synthesis of mineralocorticoids and glucocorticoids	same
CYP20A1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases that catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein lacks one amino acid of the conserved heme binding site. It also lacks the conserved I-helix motif AGX(D,E)T, suggesting that its substrate may carry its own oxygen. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP20A1 (Cytochrome P450, Family 20, Subfamily A, Polypeptide 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYP20A1 include scabies. Among its related pathways are Biological oxidations and Cytochrome P450 - arranged by substrate type. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding.	empty	same
CYP24A1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This mitochondrial protein initiates the degradation of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3, the physiologically active form of vitamin D3, by hydroxylation of the side chain. In regulating the level of vitamin D3, this enzyme plays a role in calcium homeostasis and the vitamin D endocrine system. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP24A1 (Cytochrome P450, Family 24, Subfamily A, Polypeptide 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYP24A1 include hypercalcemia, infantile and autosomal recessive infantile hypercalcemia. Among its related pathways are MicroRNAs in cancer and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP11A1.	Has a role in maintaining calcium homeostasis. Catalyzes the NADPH-dependent 24-hydroxylation of calcidiol (25-hydroxyvitamin D(3)) and calcitriol (1-alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D(3)). The enzyme can perform up to 6 rounds of hydroxylation of calcitriol leading to calcitroic acid. It also shows 23-hydroxylating activity leading to 1-alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D(3)-26,23-lactone as end product	same
CYP26A1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This endoplasmic reticulum protein acts on retinoids, including all-trans-retinoic acid (RA), with both 4-hydroxylation and 18-hydroxylation activities. This enzyme regulates the cellular level of retinoic acid which is involved in regulation of gene expression in both embryonic and adult tissues. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene, which encode the distinct isoforms, have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP26A1 (Cytochrome P450, Family 26, Subfamily A, Polypeptide 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYP26A1 include imperforate anus and caudal regression syndrome. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Vitamin A and carotenoid metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP26C1.	Plays a key role in retinoic acid metabolism. Acts on retinoids, including all-trans-retinoic acid (RA) and its stereoisomer 9-cis-RA. Capable of both 4-hydroxylation and 18-hydroxylation. Responsible for generation of several hydroxylated forms of RA, including 4-OH-RA, 4-oxo-RA and 18-OH-RA	same
CYP19A1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and catalyzes the last steps of estrogen biosynthesis. Mutations in this gene can result in either increased or decreased aromatase activity; the associated phenotypes suggest that estrogen functions both as a sex steroid hormone and in growth or differentiation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2014]	CYP19A1 (Cytochrome P450, Family 19, Subfamily A, Polypeptide 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYP19A1 include aromatase deficiency and aromatase excess syndrome. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP11A1.	Catalyzes the formation of aromatic C18 estrogens from C19 androgens	same
CYP26C1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This enzyme is involved in the catabolism of all-trans- and 9-cis-retinoic acid, and thus contributes to the regulation of retinoic acid levels in cells and tissues. This gene is adjacent to a related gene on chromosome 10q23.33. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP26C1 (Cytochrome P450, Family 26, Subfamily C, Polypeptide 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYP26C1 include focal facial dermal dysplasia 4 and focal facial dermal dysplasia. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Biological oxidations. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP26B1.	Plays a role in retinoic acid metabolism. Acts on retinoids, including all-trans-retinoic acid (RA) and its stereoisomer 9-cis-RA (preferred substrate)	same
CYB5R2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the flavoprotein pyridine nucleotide cytochrome reductase family of proteins. Cytochrome b-type NAD(P)H oxidoreductases are implicated in many processes including cholesterol biosynthesis, fatty acid desaturation and elongation, and respiratory burst in neutrophils and macrophages. Cytochrome b5 reductases have soluble and membrane-bound forms that are the product of alternative splicing. In animal cells, the membrane-bound form binds to the endoplasmic reticulum, where it is a member of a fatty acid desaturation complex. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]	CYB5R2 (Cytochrome B5 Reductase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYB5R2 include methemoglobinemia. Among its related pathways are PAK Pathway and Amino sugar and nucleotide sugar metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include cytochrome-b5 reductase activity, acting on NAD(P)H. An important paralog of this gene is CYB5R1.	NADH-cytochrome b5 reductases are involved in desaturation and elongation of fatty acids, cholesterol biosynthesis, drug metabolism, and, in erythrocyte, methemoglobin reduction (By similarity). Responsible for NADH-dependent lucigenin chemiluminescence in spermatozoa by reducing both lucigenin and 2-[4-iodophenyl]-3-[4-nitrophenyl]-5-[2,4-disulfophenyl]-2H tetrazolium monosodium salt (WST-1).	same
CYP26B1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. The encoded protein is localized to the endoplasmic reticulum, and functions as a critical regulator of all-trans retinoic acid levels by the specific inactivation of all-trans retinoic acid to hydroxylated forms. Mutations in this gene are associated with radiohumeral fusions and other skeletal and craniofacial anomalies, and increased levels of the encoded protein are associated with atherosclerotic lesions. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2013]	CYP26B1 (Cytochrome P450, Family 26, Subfamily B, Polypeptide 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYP26B1 include craniosynostosis with radiohumeral fusions and other skeletal and craniofacial anomalies and lethal occipital encephalocele-skeletal dysplasia syndrome. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Vitamin A and carotenoid metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP26C1.	Involved in the metabolism of retinoic acid (RA), rendering this classical morphogen inactive through oxidation. Involved in the specific inactivation of all-trans-retinoic acid (all-trans-RA), with a preference for the following substrates: all-trans-RA > 9-cis-RA > 13-cis-RA. Generates several hydroxylated forms of RA, including 4-OH-RA, 4-oxo-RA, and 18-OH-RA. Esential for postnatal survival. Plays a central role in germ cell development: acts by degrading RA in the developing testis, preventing STRA8 expression, thereby leading to delay of meiosis. Required for the maintenance of the undifferentiated state of male germ cells during embryonic development in Sertoli cells, inducing arrest in G0 phase of the cell cycle and preventing meiotic entry. Plays a role in skeletal development, both at the level of patterning and in the ossification of bone and the establishment of some synovial joints.	same
CYP27B1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. The protein encoded by this gene localizes to the inner mitochondrial membrane where it hydroxylates 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 at the 1alpha position. This reaction synthesizes 1alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3, the active form of vitamin D3, which binds to the vitamin D receptor and regulates calcium metabolism. Thus this enzyme regulates the level of biologically active vitamin D and plays an important role in calcium homeostasis. Mutations in this gene can result in vitamin D-dependent rickets type I. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP27B1 (Cytochrome P450, Family 27, Subfamily B, Polypeptide 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYP27B1 include vitamin d-dependent rickets, type i and hypocalcemic vitamin d-dependent rickets. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP11A1.	Catalyzes the conversion of 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 (25(OH)D) to 1-alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25(OH)2D) plays an important role in normal bone growth, calcium metabolism, and tissue differentiation	same
CYP2A13	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum. Although its endogenous substrate has not been determined, it is known to metabolize 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone, a major nitrosamine specific to tobacco. This gene is part of a large cluster of cytochrome P450 genes from the CYP2A, CYP2B and CYP2F subfamilies on chromosome 19q. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP2A13 (Cytochrome P450, Family 2, Subfamily A, Polypeptide 13) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYP2A13 include lung cancer. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Chemical carcinogenesis. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP2C19.	Exhibits a coumarin 7-hydroxylase activity. Active in the metabolic activation of hexamethylphosphoramide, N,N-dimethylaniline, 2-methoxyacetophenone, N-nitrosomethylphenylamine, and the tobacco-specific carcinogen, 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone. Possesses phenacetin O-deethylation activity.	same
CYP27A1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This mitochondrial protein oxidizes cholesterol intermediates as part of the bile synthesis pathway. Since the conversion of cholesterol to bile acids is the major route for removing cholesterol from the body, this protein is important for overall cholesterol homeostasis. Mutations in this gene cause cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis, a rare autosomal recessive lipid storage disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP27A1 (Cytochrome P450, Family 27, Subfamily A, Polypeptide 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYP27A1 include cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis and xanthomatosis. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP11A1.	Catalyzes the first step in the oxidation of the side chain of sterol intermediates; the 27-hydroxylation of 5-beta-cholestane-3-alpha,7-alpha,12-alpha-triol. Has also a vitamin D3-25-hydroxylase activity	same
CYP2B7P1	empty	CYP2B7P (Cytochrome P450, Family 2, Subfamily B, Polypeptide 7, Pseudogene) is a Pseudogene.	empty	diff
CYP27C1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP27C1 (Cytochrome P450, Family 27, Subfamily C, Polypeptide 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Biological oxidations and Cytochrome P450 - arranged by substrate type. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP11A1.	empty	same
CYP2B6	This gene, CYP2B6, encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and its expression is induced by phenobarbital. The enzyme is known to metabolize some xenobiotics, such as the anti-cancer drugs cyclophosphamide and ifosphamide. Transcript variants for this gene have been described; however, it has not been resolved whether these transcripts are in fact produced by this gene or by a closely related pseudogene, CYP2B7. Both the gene and the pseudogene are located in the middle of a CYP2A pseudogene found in a large cluster of cytochrome P450 genes from the CYP2A, CYP2B and CYP2F subfamilies on chromosome 19q. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP2B6 (Cytochrome P450, Family 2, Subfamily B, Polypeptide 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYP2B6 include efavirenz, poor metabolism of and efavirenz toxicity. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP2C19.	Cytochromes P450 are a group of heme-thiolate monooxygenases. In liver microsomes, this enzyme is involved in an NADPH-dependent electron transport pathway. It oxidizes a variety of structurally unrelated compounds, including steroids, fatty acids, and xenobiotics. Acts as a 1,4-cineole 2-exo-monooxygenase.	same
CYP2C18	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum but its specific substrate has not yet been determined. The gene is located within a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 10q24. An additional gene, CYP2C17, was once thought to exist; however, CYP2C17 is now considered an artefact based on a chimera of CYP2C18 and CYP2C19. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP2C18 (Cytochrome P450, Family 2, Subfamily C, Polypeptide 18) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Chemical carcinogenesis. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP2C19.	Cytochromes P450 are a group of heme-thiolate monooxygenases. In liver microsomes, this enzyme is involved in an NADPH-dependent electron transport pathway. It oxidizes a variety of structurally unrelated compounds, including steroids, fatty acids, and xenobiotics	same
CYP2C19	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and is known to metabolize many xenobiotics, including the anticonvulsive drug mephenytoin, omeprazole, diazepam and some barbiturates. Polymorphism within this gene is associated with variable ability to metabolize mephenytoin, known as the poor metabolizer and extensive metabolizer phenotypes. The gene is located within a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 10q24. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP2C19 (Cytochrome P450, Family 2, Subfamily C, Polypeptide 19) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYP2C19 include mephenytoin poor metabolizer and voriconazole toxicity. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include enzyme binding and iron ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP2C9.	Responsible for the metabolism of a number of therapeutic agents such as the anticonvulsant drug S-mephenytoin, omeprazole, proguanil, certain barbiturates, diazepam, propranolol, citalopram and imipramine	same
CYP2C8	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and its expression is induced by phenobarbital. The enzyme is known to metabolize many xenobiotics, including the anticonvulsive drug mephenytoin, benzo(a)pyrene, 7-ethyoxycoumarin, and the anti-cancer drug taxol. This gene is located within a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 10q24. Several transcript variants encoding a few different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]	CYP2C8 (Cytochrome P450, Family 2, Subfamily C, Polypeptide 8) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYP2C8 include osteonecrosis of the jaw and osteonecrosis. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP2C19.	Cytochromes P450 are a group of heme-thiolate monooxygenases. In liver microsomes, this enzyme is involved in an NADPH-dependent electron transport pathway. It oxidizes a variety of structurally unrelated compounds, including steroids, fatty acids, and xenobiotics. In the epoxidation of arachidonic acid it generates only 14,15- and 11,12-cis-epoxyeicosatrienoic acids. It is the principal enzyme responsible for the metabolism the anti-cancer drug paclitaxel (taxol).	same
CYP2D7P1	This pseudogene is a member of the cytochrome P450 gene superfamily. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. It is possible that, in rare cases, a combination of two SNPs in this gene may result in an open reading frame encoding a functional enzyme which metabolizes codeine to morphine. This locus is part of a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 22q13.1. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP2D7 (Cytochrome P450, Family 2, Subfamily D, Polypeptide 7 (Gene/Pseudogene)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Codeine and Morphine Pathway, Pharmacokinetics.	May be responsible for the metabolism of many drugs and environmental chemicals that it oxidizes. It may be involved in the metabolism of codeine to morphine (PubMed:15051713). However, another study could not confirm it (PubMed:18838503).	diff
CYP2D6	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and is known to metabolize as many as 25% of commonly prescribed drugs. Its substrates include antidepressants, antipsychotics, analgesics and antitussives, beta adrenergic blocking agents, antiarrythmics and antiemetics. The gene is highly polymorphic in the human population; certain alleles result in the poor metabolizer phenotype, characterized by a decreased ability to metabolize the enzyme's substrates. Some individuals with the poor metabolizer phenotype have no functional protein since they carry 2 null alleles whereas in other individuals the gene is absent. This gene can vary in copy number and individuals with the ultrarapid metabolizer phenotype can have 3 or more active copies of the gene. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]	CYP2D6 (Cytochrome P450, Family 2, Subfamily D, Polypeptide 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYP2D6 include debrisoquine sensitivity and codeine toxicity. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Nicotinate and nicotinamide metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP2C19.	Responsible for the metabolism of many drugs and environmental chemicals that it oxidizes. It is involved in the metabolism of drugs such as antiarrhythmics, adrenoceptor antagonists, and tricyclic antidepressants.	same
CYP2E1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and is induced by ethanol, the diabetic state, and starvation. The enzyme metabolizes both endogenous substrates, such as ethanol, acetone, and acetal, as well as exogenous substrates including benzene, carbon tetrachloride, ethylene glycol, and nitrosamines which are premutagens found in cigarette smoke. Due to its many substrates, this enzyme may be involved in such varied processes as gluconeogenesis, hepatic cirrhosis, diabetes, and cancer. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP2E1 (Cytochrome P450, Family 2, Subfamily E, Polypeptide 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYP2E1 include alcoholic hepatitis and alcohol-related birth defect. Among its related pathways are GPCR Pathway and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include enzyme binding and iron ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP2C19.	Metabolizes several precarcinogens, drugs, and solvents to reactive metabolites. Inactivates a number of drugs and xenobiotics and also bioactivates many xenobiotic substrates to their hepatotoxic or carcinogenic forms	same
CYP2J2	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and is thought to be the predominant enzyme responsible for epoxidation of endogenous arachidonic acid in cardiac tissue. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP2J2 (Cytochrome P450, Family 2, Subfamily J, Polypeptide 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP2C19.	This enzyme metabolizes arachidonic acid predominantly via a NADPH-dependent olefin epoxidation to all four regioisomeric cis-epoxyeicosatrienoic acids. One of the predominant enzymes responsible for the epoxidation of endogenous cardiac arachidonic acid pools	same
CYP2S1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum. In rodents, the homologous protein has been shown to metabolize certain carcinogens; however, the specific function of the human protein has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP2S1 (Cytochrome P450, Family 2, Subfamily S, Polypeptide 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Biological oxidations. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP2C19.	Has a potential importance for extrahepatic xenobiotic metabolism	same
CYP2C9	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and its expression is induced by rifampin. The enzyme is known to metabolize many xenobiotics, including phenytoin, tolbutamide, ibuprofen and S-warfarin. Studies identifying individuals who are poor metabolizers of phenytoin and tolbutamide suggest that this gene is polymorphic. The gene is located within a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 10q24. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP2C9 (Cytochrome P450, Family 2, Subfamily C, Polypeptide 9) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYP2C9 include oral antidiabetic drugs toxicity or dose selection and vitamin k antagonists toxicity or dose selection. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP2C19.	Cytochromes P450 are a group of heme-thiolate monooxygenases. In liver microsomes, this enzyme is involved in an NADPH-dependent electron transport pathway. It oxidizes a variety of structurally unrelated compounds, including steroids, fatty acids, and xenobiotics. This enzyme contributes to the wide pharmacokinetics variability of the metabolism of drugs such as S-warfarin, diclofenac, phenytoin, tolbutamide and losartan	same
CYP39A1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This endoplasmic reticulum protein is involved in the conversion of cholesterol to bile acids. Its substrates include the oxysterols 25-hydroxycholesterol, 27-hydroxycholesterol and 24-hydroxycholesterol. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]	CYP39A1 (Cytochrome P450, Family 39, Subfamily A, Polypeptide 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP8B1.	Involved in the bile acid metabolism. Has a preference for 24-hydroxycholesterol, and converts it into a 7-alpha-hydroxylated product	same
CYP2U1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This enzyme is a hydroxylase that metabolizes arachidonic acid, docosahexaenoic acid, and other long chain fatty acids. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP2U1 (Cytochrome P450, Family 2, Subfamily U, Polypeptide 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYP2U1 include spastic paraplegia 56, autosomal recessive. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP2C19.	Catalyzes the hydroxylation of arachidonic acid, docosahexaenoic acid and other long chain fatty acids. May modulate the arachidonic acid signaling pathway and play a role in other fatty acid signaling processes.	same
CYP2W1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP2W1 (Cytochrome P450, Family 2, Subfamily W, Polypeptide 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Biological oxidations. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP2C19.	Seems to have broad catalytic activity towards several chemicals, including polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon dihydrodiols and aromatic amines (PubMed:16551781, PubMed:24278521). Actives also in the metabolism of indoline substrates and is able to activate aflatoxin B1 into cytotoxic products (PubMed:20805301). Furthermore, it seems to be involved in the oxydation of lysophospholipids and fatty acids (PubMed:22591743).	same
CYP2A7	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum; its substrate has not yet been determined. This gene, which produces two transcript variants, is part of a large cluster of cytochrome P450 genes from the CYP2A, CYP2B and CYP2F subfamilies on chromosome 19q. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP2A7 (Cytochrome P450, Family 2, Subfamily A, Polypeptide 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Biological oxidations. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP2C19.	Cytochromes P450 are a group of heme-thiolate monooxygenases. In liver microsomes, this enzyme is involved in an NADPH-dependent electron transport pathway. It oxidizes a variety of structurally unrelated compounds, including steroids, fatty acids, and xenobiotics	same
CYP2A6	This gene, CYP2A6, encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and its expression is induced by phenobarbital. The enzyme is known to hydroxylate coumarin, and also metabolizes nicotine, aflatoxin B1, nitrosamines, and some pharmaceuticals. Individuals with certain allelic variants are said to have a poor metabolizer phenotype, meaning they do not efficiently metabolize coumarin or nicotine. This gene is part of a large cluster of cytochrome P450 genes from the CYP2A, CYP2B and CYP2F subfamilies on chromosome 19q. The gene was formerly referred to as CYP2A3; however, it has been renamed CYP2A6. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP2A6 (Cytochrome P450, Family 2, Subfamily A, Polypeptide 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYP2A6 include coumarin resistance and nicotine dependence, protection against. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include enzyme binding and iron ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP2C19.	Exhibits a high coumarin 7-hydroxylase activity. Can act in the hydroxylation of the anti-cancer drugs cyclophosphamide and ifosphamide. Competent in the metabolic activation of aflatoxin B1. Constitutes the major nicotine C-oxidase. Acts as a 1,4-cineole 2-exo-monooxygenase. Possesses low phenacetin O-deethylation activity.	same
CYP3A4	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases that catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and its expression is induced by glucocorticoids and some pharmacological agents. This enzyme is involved in the metabolism of approximately half the drugs in use today, including acetaminophen, codeine, cyclosporin A, diazepam and erythromycin. The enzyme also metabolizes some steroids and carcinogens. This gene is part of a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 7q21.1. Previously another CYP3A gene, CYP3A3, was thought to exist; however, it is now thought that this sequence represents a transcript variant of CYP3A4. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]	CYP3A4 (Cytochrome P450, Family 3, Subfamily A, Polypeptide 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYP3A4 include xanthomatosis and methemoglobinemia. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include enzyme binding and iron ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP4F12.	Cytochromes P450 are a group of heme-thiolate monooxygenases. In liver microsomes, this enzyme is involved in an NADPH-dependent electron transport pathway. It performs a variety of oxidation reactions (e.g. caffeine 8-oxidation, omeprazole sulphoxidation, midazolam 1-hydroxylation and midazolam 4-hydroxylation) of structurally unrelated compounds, including steroids, fatty acids, and xenobiotics. Acts as a 1,8-cineole 2-exo-monooxygenase. The enzyme also hydroxylates etoposide.	same
CYP3A5	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. The encoded protein metabolizes drugs as well as the steroid hormones testosterone and progesterone. This gene is part of a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 7q21.1. Two pseudogenes of this gene have been identified within this cluster on chromosome 7. Expression of this gene is widely variable among populations, and a single nucleotide polymorphism that affects transcript splicing has been associated with susceptibility to hypertensions. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2014]	CYP3A5 (Cytochrome P450, Family 3, Subfamily A, Polypeptide 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYP3A5 include tacrolimus dose selection and engraftment syndrome. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP4F12.	Cytochromes P450 are a group of heme-thiolate monooxygenases. In liver microsomes, this enzyme is involved in an NADPH-dependent electron transport pathway. It oxidizes a variety of structurally unrelated compounds, including steroids, fatty acids, and xenobiotics	same
CYP46A1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This endoplasmic reticulum protein is expressed in the brain, where it converts cholesterol to 24S-hydroxycholesterol. While cholesterol cannot pass the blood-brain barrier, 24S-hydroxycholesterol can be secreted in the brain into the circulation to be returned to the liver for catabolism. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP46A1 (Cytochrome P450, Family 46, Subfamily A, Polypeptide 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYP46A1 include alzheimer disease. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP11A1.	Involved in the turnover of cholesterol. It converts cholesterol into 24S-hydroxycholesterol and, to a lesser extent, 25-hydroxycholesterol. Has also activity with xenobiotic compounds, such as clotrimazole.	same
CYP3A7	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes, which participate in drug metabolism and the synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This enzyme hydroxylates testosterone and dehydroepiandrosterone 3-sulphate, which is involved in the formation of estriol during pregnancy. This gene is part of a cluster of related genes on chromosome 7q21.1. Naturally-occurring readthrough transcription occurs between this gene and the downstream CYP3A51P pseudogene and is represented by GeneID:100861540. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2015]	CYP3A7 (Cytochrome P450, Family 3, Subfamily A, Polypeptide 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Chemical carcinogenesis. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP4F12.	Cytochromes P450 are a group of heme-thiolate monooxygenases. In liver microsomes, this enzyme is involved in an NADPH-dependent electron transport pathway. It oxidizes a variety of structurally unrelated compounds, including steroids, fatty acids, and xenobiotics	same
CYP4A11	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and hydroxylates medium-chain fatty acids such as laurate and myristate. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP4A11 (Cytochrome P450, Family 4, Subfamily A, Polypeptide 11) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP4F12.	Catalyzes the omega- and (omega-1)-hydroxylation of various fatty acids such as laurate, myristate and palmitate. Has little activity toward prostaglandins A1 and E1. Oxidizes arachidonic acid to 20-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (20-HETE).	same
CYP4A22	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This gene is part of a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 1p33. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP4A22 (Cytochrome P450, Family 4, Subfamily A, Polypeptide 22) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP4F12.	Catalyzes the omega- and (omega-1)-hydroxylation of various fatty acids such as laurate and palmitate. Shows no activity towards arachidonic acid and prostaglandin A1. Lacks functional activity in the kidney and does not contribute to renal 20-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (20-HETE) biosynthesis.	same
CYP4B1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum. In rodents, the homologous protein has been shown to metabolize certain carcinogens; however, the specific function of the human protein has not been determined. Two transcript variants encoding slightly different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP4B1 (Cytochrome P450, Family 4, Subfamily B, Polypeptide 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP4F12.	Cytochromes P450 are a group of heme-thiolate monooxygenases. In liver microsomes, this enzyme is involved in an NADPH-dependent electron transport pathway. It oxidizes a variety of structurally unrelated compounds, including steroids, fatty acids, and xenobiotics	same
CYP2F1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and is known to dehydrogenate 3-methylindole, an endogenous toxin derived from the fermentation of tryptophan, as well as xenobiotic substrates such as naphthalene and ethoxycoumarin. This gene is part of a large cluster of cytochrome P450 genes from the CYP2A, CYP2B and CYP2F subfamilies on chromosome 19q. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP2F1 (Cytochrome P450, Family 2, Subfamily F, Polypeptide 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Biological oxidations. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP2C19.	May be involved in the metabolism of various pneumotoxicants including naphthalene. Is able to dealkylate ethoxycoumarin, propoxycoumarin, and pentoxyresorufin but possesses no activity toward ethoxyresorufin and only trace dearylation activity toward benzyloxyresorufin. Bioactivates 3-methylindole (3MI) by dehydrogenation to the putative electrophile 3-methylene-indolenine.	same
CYP3A43	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. The encoded protein has a low level of testosterone hydroxylase activity, and may play a role in aging mechanisms and cancer progression. This gene is part of a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 7q21.1. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]	CYP3A43 (Cytochrome P450, Family 3, Subfamily A, Polypeptide 43) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Chemical carcinogenesis. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP4F12.	Exhibits low testosterone 6-beta-hydroxylase activity	same
CYP2R1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This enzyme is a microsomal vitamin D hydroxylase that converts vitamin D into the active ligand for the vitamin D receptor. A mutation in this gene has been associated with selective 25-hydroxyvitamin D deficiency. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP2R1 (Cytochrome P450, Family 2, Subfamily R, Polypeptide 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYP2R1 include rickets due to defect in vitamin d 25-hydroxylation and hypocalcemic vitamin d-dependent rickets. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP2C19.	Has a D-25-hydroxylase activity on both forms of vitamin D, vitamin D(2) and D(3).	same
CYP4F12	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein likely localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum. When expressed in yeast the enzyme is capable of oxdizing arachidonic acid. It can also catalyze the epoxidation of 22:6n-3 and 22:5n-3 polyunsaturated long-chain fatty acids. This gene is part of a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 19. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2014]	CYP4F12 (Cytochrome P450, Family 4, Subfamily F, Polypeptide 12) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Biological oxidations. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is TBXAS1.	Catalyzes leukotriene B4 omega-hydroxylation and arachidonic acid omega-hydroxylation but with an activity much lower than that of CYP4F2. Catalyzes the hydroxylation of the antihistamine ebastine	same
CYP4F8	This gene, CYP4F8, encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and functions as a 19-hydroxylase of prostaglandins in seminal vesicles. This gene is part of a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 19. Another member of this family, CYP4F3, is approximately 18 kb away. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP4F8 (Cytochrome P450, Family 4, Subfamily F, Polypeptide 8) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding.	Hydroxylates arachidonic acid (20:4n-6) to (18R)-hydroxyarachidonate. Shows little activity against prostaglandin (PG) D2, PGE1, PGE2, PGF2alpha, and leukotriene B4. Catalyzes omega-2 and omega-3-hydroxylation of PGH1 and PGH2. Catalyzes epoxidation of 4,7,10,13,16,19-(Z)-docosahexaenoic acid (22:6n-3) and 7,10,13,16,19-(Z)-docosapentaenoic acid (22:5n-3) and omega-3-hydroxylation of 4,7,10,13,16-(Z)-docosapentaenoic acid (22:5n-6). Catalyzes hydroxylation of PGI2 and carbaprostacyclin.	same
CYP4F22	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This gene is part of a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 19 and encodes an enzyme thought to play a role in the 12(R)-lipoxygenase pathway. Mutations in this gene are the cause of ichthyosis lamellar type 3. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP4F22 (Cytochrome P450, Family 4, Subfamily F, Polypeptide 22) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYP4F22 include ichthyosis, congenital, autosomal recessive 5 and cyp4f22-related autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP4F12.	empty	same
CYP4F2	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum. The enzyme starts the process of inactivating and degrading leukotriene B4, a potent mediator of inflammation. This gene is part of a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 19. Another member of this family, CYP4F11, is approximately 16 kb away. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP4F2 (Cytochrome P450, Family 4, Subfamily F, Polypeptide 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYP4F2 include vitamin k antagonists toxicity or dose selection. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP4F12.	Omega-hydroxylase that oxidizes a variety of structurally unrelated compounds, including steroids, fatty acids and xenobiotics. Plays a key role in vitamin K catabolism by mediating omega-hydroxylation of vitamin K1 (phylloquinone), and menaquinone-4 (MK-4), a form of vitamin K2. Hydroxylation of phylloquinone and MK-4 probably regulates blood coagulation (PubMed:19297519, PubMed:24138531). Also shows arachidonic acid omega-hydroxylase activity in kidney, by mediating conversion of arachidonic acid to 20-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (20-HETE), possibly influencing blood pressure control (PubMed:10660572, PubMed:17341693, PubMed:18574070). Also acts as a leukotriene-B(4) omega-hydroxylase by mediating conversion of leukotriene-B(4) (LTB4) to its omega-hydroxylated metabolite 20-hydroxyleukotriene-B(4) (20-OH LTB4) (PubMed:8026587, PubMed:9799565).	same
CYP4F3	This gene, CYP4F3, encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum. The enzyme starts the process of inactivating and degrading leukotriene B4, a potent mediator of inflammation. This gene is part of a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 19. Another member of this family, CYP4F8, is approximately 18 kb away. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]	CYP4F3 (Cytochrome P450, Family 4, Subfamily F, Polypeptide 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYP4F3 include ascariasis and trichuriasis. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP4F12.	Isoform CYP4F3A: Catalyzes the omega-hydroxylation of leukotriene-B(4), a potent chemoattractant for polymorphonuclear leukocytes, it has low activity for arachidonic acid.	same
CYP4V2	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 hemethiolate protein superfamily which are involved in oxidizing various substrates in the metabolic pathway. It is implicated in the metabolism of fatty acid precursors into n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids. Mutations in this gene result in Bietti crystalline corneoretinal dystrophy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP4V2 (Cytochrome P450, Family 4, Subfamily V, Polypeptide 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYP4V2 include bietti crystalline corneoretinal dystrophy and corneal dystrophy. Among its related pathways are Biological oxidations and Cytochrome P450 - arranged by substrate type. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP4F12.	Omega-hydroxylase that oxidizes medium-chain saturated fatty acids and polyunsaturated omega-3 fatty acids, and which plays a role in fatty acid and steroid metabolism in the eye (PubMed:19661213, PubMed:22772592). Catalyzes the omega-hydroxylation of medium-chain saturated fatty acids such as laurate, myristate and palmitate in an NADPH-dependent pathway. The substrate specificity is higher for myristate > laurate > palmitate (C14>C16>C12) (PubMed:19661213). Acts as a polyunsaturated omega-3 fatty acids hydroxylase by mediating oxidation of docosahexaenoate (DHA) to 22-hydroxydocosahexaenoate (PubMed:22772592). Also produces some 21-hydroxydocosahexaenoate. Also converts eicosapentaenoate (EPA) to 20-hydroxyeicosapentaenoate (20-OH-EPA) (PubMed:22772592).	same
CYP51A1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This endoplasmic reticulum protein participates in the synthesis of cholesterol by catalyzing the removal of the 14alpha-methyl group from lanosterol. Homologous genes are found in all three eukaryotic phyla, fungi, plants, and animals, suggesting that this is one of the oldest cytochrome P450 genes. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]	CYP51A1 (Cytochrome P450, Family 51, Subfamily A, Polypeptide 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYP51A1 include chagas disease and antley-bixler syndrome. Among its related pathways are Regulation of Cholesterol Biosynthesis by SREBP (SREBF) and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP26C1.	Catalyzes C14-demethylation of lanosterol; it transforms lanosterol into 4,4-dimethyl cholesta-8,14,24-triene-3-beta-ol.	same
CYP4X1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. The expression pattern of a similar rat protein suggests that this protein may be involved in neurovascular function in the brain. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP4X1 (Cytochrome P450, Family 4, Subfamily X, Polypeptide 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Circadian entrainment and Biological oxidations. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP4F12.	empty	same
CYP4Z2P	empty	CYP4Z2P (Cytochrome P450, Family 4, Subfamily Z, Polypeptide 2, Pseudogene) is a Pseudogene. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding.	empty	same
CYP4Z1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This gene is part of a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 1p33. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP4Z1 (Cytochrome P450, Family 4, Subfamily Z, Polypeptide 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Biological oxidations and Cytochrome P450 - arranged by substrate type. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP4F12.	empty	same
CYP8B1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This endoplasmic reticulum membrane protein catalyzes the conversion of 7 alpha-hydroxy-4-cholesten-3-one into 7-alpha,12-alpha-dihydroxy-4-cholesten-3-one. The balance between these two steroids determines the relative amounts of cholic acid and chenodeoxycholic acid both of which are secreted in the bile and affect the solubility of cholesterol. This gene is unique among the cytochrome P450 genes in that it is intronless. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP8B1 (Cytochrome P450, Family 8, Subfamily B, Polypeptide 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP7B1.	Involved in bile acid synthesis and is responsible for the conversion of 7 alpha-hydroxy-4-cholesten-3-one into 7 alpha, 12 alpha-dihydroxy-4-cholesten-3-one. Responsible for the balance between formation of cholic acid and chenodeoxycholic acid. Has a rather broad substrate specificity including a number of 7-alpha-hydroxylated C27 steroids	same
CYR61	The secreted protein encoded by this gene is growth factor-inducible and promotes the adhesion of endothelial cells. The encoded protein interacts with several integrins and with heparan sulfate proteoglycan. This protein also plays a role in cell proliferation, differentiation, angiogenesis, apoptosis, and extracellular matrix formation. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]	CYR61 (Cysteine-Rich, Angiogenic Inducer, 61) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYR61 include epispadias and leiomyoma. Among its related pathways are Angiogenesis (CST) and amb2 Integrin signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include heparin binding and insulin-like growth factor binding. An important paralog of this gene is NOV.	Promotes cell proliferation, chemotaxis, angiogenesis and cell adhesion. Appears to play a role in wound healing by up-regulating, in skin fibroblasts, the expression of a number of genes involved in angiogenesis, inflammation and matrix remodeling including VEGA-A, VEGA-C, MMP1, MMP3, TIMP1, uPA, PAI-1 and integrins alpha-3 and alpha-5. CYR61-mediated gene regulation is dependent on heparin-binding. Down-regulates the expression of alpha-1 and alpha-2 subunits of collagen type-1. Promotes cell adhesion and adhesive signaling through integrin alpha-6/beta-1, cell migration through integrin alpha-v/beta-5 and cell proliferation through integrin alpha-v/beta-3.	same
CYSLTR1	This gene encodes a member of the G-protein coupled receptor 1 family. The encoded protein is a receptor for cysteinyl leukotrienes, and is involved in mediating bronchoconstriction via activation of a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system. Activation of the encoded receptor results in contraction and proliferation of bronchial smooth muscle cells, eosinophil migration, and damage to the mucus layer in the lung. Upregulation of this gene is associated with asthma and dysregulation may also be implicated in cancer. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2013]	CYSLTR1 (Cysteinyl Leukotriene Receptor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYSLTR1 include churg-strauss syndrome and brain injury. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include leukotriene receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is PTAFR.	Receptor for cysteinyl leukotrienes mediating bronchoconstriction of individuals with and without asthma. Stimulation by LTD4 results in the contraction and proliferation of smooth muscle, edema, eosinophil migration and damage to the mucus layer in the lung. This response is mediated via a G-protein that activates a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system. The rank order of affinities for the leukotrienes is LTD4 >> LTE4 = LTC4 >> LTB4	same
CYS1	empty	CYS1 (Cystin 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYS1 include astereognosia and ureterocele.	empty	same
CYP7B1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This endoplasmic reticulum membrane protein catalyzes the first reaction in the cholesterol catabolic pathway of extrahepatic tissues, which converts cholesterol to bile acids. This enzyme likely plays a minor role in total bile acid synthesis, but may also be involved in the development of atherosclerosis, neurosteroid metabolism and sex hormone synthesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP7B1 (Cytochrome P450, Family 7, Subfamily B, Polypeptide 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYP7B1 include bile acid synthesis defect, congenital, 3 and spastic paraplegia 5a, autosomal recessive. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP8B1.	empty	same
CYP7A1	This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This endoplasmic reticulum membrane protein catalyzes the first reaction in the cholesterol catabolic pathway in the liver, which converts cholesterol to bile acids. This reaction is the rate limiting step and the major site of regulation of bile acid synthesis, which is the primary mechanism for the removal of cholesterol from the body. Polymorphisms in the promoter of this gene are associated with defects in bile acid synthesis. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]	CYP7A1 (Cytochrome P450, Family 7, Subfamily A, Polypeptide 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYP7A1 include hypercholesterolemia due to cholesterol 7alpha-hydroxylase deficiency and extrahepatic cholestasis. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP8B1.	Catalyzes a rate-limiting step in cholesterol catabolism and bile acid biosynthesis by introducing a hydrophilic moiety at position 7 of cholesterol. Important for cholesterol homeostasis.	same
CYSLTR2	The cysteinyl leukotrienes LTC4, LTD4, and LTE4 are important mediators of human bronchial asthma. Pharmacologic studies have determined that cysteinyl leukotrienes activate at least 2 receptors, the protein encoded by this gene and CYSLTR1. This encoded receptor is a member of the superfamily of G protein-coupled receptors. It seems to play a major role in endocrine and cardiovascular systems. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYSLTR2 (Cysteinyl Leukotriene Receptor 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CYSLTR2 include kaposi sarcoma and leukocyte adhesion deficiency. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include leukotriene receptor activity and cysteinyl leukotriene receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is PTAFR.	Receptor for cysteinyl leukotrienes. The response is mediated via a G-protein that activates a phosphatidylinositol-calcium second messenger system. Stimulation by BAY u9773, a partial agonist, induces specific contractions of pulmonary veins and might also have an indirect role in the relaxation of the pulmonary vascular endothelium. The rank order of affinities for the leukotrienes is LTC4 = LTD4 >> LTE4	same
CYTH1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the PSCD family. Members of this family have identical structural organization that consists of an N-terminal coiled-coil motif, a central Sec7 domain, and a C-terminal pleckstrin homology (PH) domain. The coiled-coil motif is involved in homodimerization, the Sec7 domain contains guanine-nucleotide exchange protein activity, and the PH domain interacts with phospholipids and is responsible for association of PSCDs with membranes. Members of this family appear to mediate the regulation of protein sorting and membrane trafficking. This gene is highly expressed in natural killer and peripheral T cells, and regulates the adhesiveness of integrins at the plasma membrane of lymphocytes. A pseudogene of this gene has been defined on the X chromosome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2014]	CYTH1 (Cytohesin 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I PI3K signaling events and Development Angiotensin activation of ERK. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and ARF guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000268465.	Promotes guanine-nucleotide exchange on ARF1 and ARF5. Promotes the activation of ARF factors through replacement of GDP with GTP.	same
CYP4F11	This gene, CYP4F11, encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This gene is part of a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 19. Another member of this family, CYP4F2, is approximately 16 kb away. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYP4F11 (Cytochrome P450, Family 4, Subfamily F, Polypeptide 11) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and heme binding. An important paralog of this gene is CYP4F12.	Omega-hydroxylase that oxidizes a variety of structurally unrelated compounds, including fatty acids and xenobiotics. Plays a key role in vitamin K catabolism by mediating omega-hydroxylation of vitamin K1 (phylloquinone), and menaquinone-4 (MK-4), a form of vitamin K2. Hydroxylation of phylloquinone and MK-4 probably regulates blood coagulation (PubMed:24138531). Catalyzes omega-hydroxylation of 3-hydroxy fatty acids, such as 3-hydroxypalmitate, 3-hydroxyoleate, 3-hydroxyarachidonate, and 3-hydroxystearate (PubMed:18065749, PubMed:19932081). Oxidizes drugs such as erythromycin, benzphetamine, ethylmorphine, chlorpromazine and imipramine (PubMed:15364545).	same
CYTH3	This gene encodes a member of the PSCD (pleckstrin homology, Sec7 and coiled-coil domains) family. PSCD family members have identical structural organization that consists of an N-terminal coiled-coil motif, a central Sec7 domain, and a C-terminal pleckstrin homology (PH) domain. The coiled-coil motif is involved in homodimerization, the Sec7 domain contains guanine-nucleotide exchange protein (GEP) activity, and the PH domain interacts with phospholipids and is responsible for association of PSCDs with membranes. Members of this family appear to mediate the regulation of protein sorting and membrane trafficking. This encoded protein is involved in the control of Golgi structure and function, and it may have a physiological role in regulating ADP-ribosylation factor protein 6 (ARF) functions, in addition to acting on ARF1. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	CYTH3 (Cytohesin 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I PI3K signaling events and Development Angiotensin activation of ERK. GO annotations related to this gene include 1-phosphatidylinositol binding and ARF guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000268465.	Promotes guanine-nucleotide exchange on ARF1 and ARF6. Promotes the activation of ARF factors through replacement of GDP with GTP.	same
CYTSA	This gene encodes a coiled-coil domain containing protein. The encoded protein may play a critical role in actin-cytoskeletal reorganization during facial morphogenesis. Mutations in this gene are a cause of oblique facial clefting-1. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. A read-through transcript composed of SPECC1L (sperm antigen with calponin homology and coiled-coil domains 1-like) and the downstream ADORA2A (adenosine A2a receptor) gene sequence has been identified, but it is thought to be non-coding. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2013]	SPECC1L (Sperm Antigen With Calponin Homology And Coiled-Coil Domains 1-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with SPECC1L include facial clefting, oblique, 1 and tessier number 4 facial cleft. An important paralog of this gene is SMTNL2.	Involved in cytokinesis and spindle organization. May play a role in actin cytoskeleton organization and microtubule stabilization and hence required for proper cell adhesion and migration.	diff
CYorf15A	empty	TXLNGY (Taxilin Gamma Pseudogene, Y-Linked) is a Pseudogene.	empty	diff
CYorf15B	empty	TXLNGY (Taxilin Gamma Pseudogene, Y-Linked) is a Pseudogene.	empty	diff
CYTH2	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the PSCD family. Members of this family have identical structural organization that consists of an N-terminal coiled-coil motif, a central Sec7 domain, and a C-terminal pleckstrin homology (PH) domain. The coiled-coil motif is involved in homodimerization, the Sec7 domain contains guanine-nucleotide exchange protein (GEP) activity, and the PH domain interacts with phospholipids and is responsible for association of PSCDs with membranes. Members of this family appear to mediate the regulation of protein sorting and membrane trafficking. The encoded protein exhibits GEP activity in vitro with ARF1, ARF3, and ARF6 and is 83% homologous to CYTH1. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]	CYTH2 (Cytohesin 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I PI3K signaling events and Arf1 pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and ARF guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000268465.	Acts as a guanine-nucleotide exchange factor (GEF). Promotes guanine-nucleotide exchange on ARF1, ARF3 and ARF6. Promotes the activation of ARF factors through replacement of GDP with GTP. The cell membrane form, in association with ARL4 proteins, recruits ARF6 to the plasma membrane.	same
CYTSB	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the cytospin-A family. It is localized in the nucleus, and highly expressed in testis and some cancer cell lines. A chromosomal translocation involving this gene and platelet-derived growth factor receptor, beta gene (PDGFRB) may be a cause of juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	SPECC1 (Sperm Antigen With Calponin Homology And Coiled-Coil Domains 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is SMTNL2.	empty	diff
CYYR1	empty	CYYR1 (Cysteine/Tyrosine-Rich 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
COMMD1	COMMD1 is a regulator of copper homeostasis, sodium uptake, and NF-kappa-B (see MIM 164011) signaling (de Bie et al., 2005 [PubMed 16267171]).[supplied by OMIM, Sep 2009]	COMMD1 (Copper Metabolism (Murr1) Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with COMMD1 include wilson disease. Among its related pathways are Delta508-CFTR traffic / ER-to-Golgi in CF and TNF-alpha/NF-kB Signaling Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and copper ion binding.	Proposed scaffold protein that is implicated in diverse physiological processes and whose function may be in part linked to its ability to regulate ubiquitination of specific cellular proteins. Can modulate activity of cullin-RING E3 ubiquitin ligase (CRL) complexes by displacing CAND1; in vitro promotes CRL E3 activity and dissociates CAND1 from CUL1 and CUL2 (PubMed:21778237). Promotes ubiquitination of NF-kappa-B subunit RELA and its subsequent proteasomal degradation. Down-regulates NF-kappa-B activity (PubMed:15799966, PubMed:17183367, PubMed:20048074). Involved in the regulation of membrane expression and ubiquitination of SLC12A2 (PubMed:23515529). Modulates Na(+) transport in epithelial cells by regulation of apical cell surface expression of amiloride-sensitive sodium channel (ENaC) subunits and by promoting their ubiquitination presumably involving NEDD4L. Promotes the localization of SCNN1D to recycling endosomes (PubMed:14645214, PubMed:20237237, PubMed:21741370). Promotes CFTR cell surface expression through regulation of its ubiquitination (PubMed:21483833). Down-regulates SOD1 activity by interfering with its homodimerization (PubMed:20595380). Plays a role in copper ion homeostasis. Involved in copper-dependent ATP7A trafficking between the trans-Golgi network and vesicles in the cell periphery; the function is proposed to depend on its association within the CCC complex and cooperation with the WASH complex on early endosomes (PubMed:25355947). Can bind one copper ion per monomer (PubMed:17309234). May function to facilitate biliary copper excretion within hepatocytes. Binds to phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PtdIns(4,5)P2) (PubMed:18940794). Involved in the regulation of HIF1A-mediated transcription; competes with ARNT/Hif-1-beta for binding to HIF1A resulting in decreased DNA binding and impaired transcriptional activation by HIF-1 (PubMed:20458141).	same
CYTL1	C17 is a cytokine-like protein specifically expressed in bone marrow and cord blood mononuclear cells that bear the CD34 (MIM 142230) surface marker (Liu et al., 2000 [PubMed 10857752]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	CYTL1 (Cytokine-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding.	empty	same
CYTH4	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the PSCD family. Members of this family have identical structural organization that consists of an N-terminal coiled-coil motif, a central Sec7 domain, and a C-terminal pleckstrin homology (PH) domain. The coiled-coil motif is involved in homodimerization, the Sec7 domain contains guanine-nucleotide exchange protein (GEP) activity, and the PH domain interacts with phospholipids and is responsible for association of PSCDs with membranes. Members of this family appear to mediate the regulation of protein sorting and membrane trafficking. The encoded protein exhibits GEP activity in vitro with both ARF1 and ARF5 but is inactive with ARF6. The structures of this gene and CYTH1 are very similar. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]	CYTH4 (Cytohesin 4) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and ARF guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000268465.	Promotes guanine-nucleotide exchange on ARF1 and ARF5. Promotes the activation of ARF factors through replacement of GDP with GTP.	same
D2HGDH	This gene encodes D-2hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase, a mitochondrial enzyme belonging to the FAD-binding oxidoreductase/transferase type 4 family. This enzyme, which is most active in liver and kidney but also active in heart and brain, converts D-2-hydroxyglutarate to 2-ketoglutarate. Mutations in this gene are present in D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, a rare recessive neurometabolic disorder causing developmental delay, epilepsy, hypotonia, and dysmorphic features. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	D2HGDH (D-2-Hydroxyglutarate Dehydrogenase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with D2HGDH include d-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria and 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Respiratory electron transport, ATP synthesis by chemiosmotic coupling, and heat production by uncoupling proteins.. GO annotations related to this gene include flavin adenine dinucleotide binding and (R)-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase activity.	Catalyzes the oxidation of D-2-hydroxyglutarate to alpha-ketoglutarate.	same
CYTIP	The protein encoded by this gene contains 2 leucine zipper domains and a putative C-terminal nuclear targeting signal, but does not have any hydrophobic regions. This protein is expressed weakly in resting NK and T cells. The encoded protein modulates the activation of ARF genes by CYTH1. This protein interacts with CYTH1 and SNX27 proteins and may act to sequester CYTH1 protein in the cytoplasm.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008]	CYTIP (Cytohesin 1 Interacting Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is GRASP.	By its binding to cytohesin-1 (CYTH1), it modifies activation of ARFs by CYTH1 and its precise function may be to sequester CYTH1 in the cytoplasm	same
D4S234E	empty	NSG1 (Neuron Specific Gene Family Member 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include clathrin light chain binding. An important paralog of this gene is HMP19.	empty	diff
DAAM1	Cell motility, adhesion, cytokinesis, and other functions of the cell cortex are mediated by reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton and several formin homology (FH) proteins have been associated with these processes. The protein encoded by this gene contains two FH domains and belongs to a novel FH protein subfamily implicated in cell polarity. A key regulator of cytoskeletal architecture, the small GTPase Rho, is activated during development by Wnt/Fz signaling to control cell polarity and movement. The protein encoded by this gene is thought to function as a scaffolding protein for the Wnt-induced assembly of a disheveled (Dvl)-Rho complex. This protein also promotes the nucleation and elongation of new actin filaments and regulates cell growth through the stabilization of microtubules. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]	DAAM1 (Dishevelled Associated Activator Of Morphogenesis 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Wnt signaling pathway (KEGG). GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and Rho GTPase binding. An important paralog of this gene is FMN2.	Binds to disheveled (Dvl) and Rho, and mediates Wnt-induced Dvl-Rho complex formation. May play a role as a scaffolding protein to recruit Rho-GDP and Rho-GEF, thereby enhancing Rho-GTP formation. Can direct nucleation and elongation of new actin filaments.	same
DAAM2	empty	DAAM2 (Dishevelled Associated Activator Of Morphogenesis 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Wnt signaling pathway (KEGG) and WNT Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding and Rho GTPase binding. An important paralog of this gene is FMN2.	empty	same
DAB1	The laminar organization of multiple neuronal types in the cerebral cortex is required for normal cognitive function. In mice, the disabled-1 gene plays a central role in brain development, directing the migration of cortical neurons past previously formed neurons to reach their proper layer. This gene is similar to disabled-1, and the protein encoded by this gene is thought to be a signal transducer that interacts with protein kinase pathways to regulate neuronal positioning in the developing brain. Alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been reported, but their full length nature has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DAB1 (Dab, Reelin Signal Transducer, Homolog 1 (Drosophila)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DAB1 include ciliary dyskinesia, primary, 2. Among its related pathways are Tyrosine Kinases / Adaptors and Guidance Cues and Growth Cone Motility. GO annotations related to this gene include phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase binding. An important paralog of this gene is DAB2.	Adapter molecule functioning in neural development. May regulate SIAH1 activity (By similarity).	same
DAB2IP	DAB2IP is a Ras (MIM 190020) GTPase-activating protein (GAP) that acts as a tumor suppressor. The DAB2IP gene is inactivated by methylation in prostate and breast cancers (Yano et al., 2005 [PubMed 15386433]).[supplied by OMIM, May 2010]	DAB2IP (DAB2 Interacting Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DAB2IP include prostate cancer. Among its related pathways are PAK Pathway and Phospholipase-C Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and protein kinase binding. An important paralog of this gene is RASA2.	Functions as a scaffold protein implicated in the regulation of a large spectrum of both general and specialized signaling pathways. Involved in several processes such as innate immune response, inflammation and cell growth inhibition, apoptosis, cell survival, angiogenesis, cell migration and maturation. Plays also a role in cell cycle checkpoint control; reduces G1 phase cyclin levels resulting in G0/G1 cell cycle arrest. Mediates signal transduction by receptor-mediated inflammatory signals, such as the tumor necrosis factor (TNF), interferon (IFN) or lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Modulates the balance between phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)-AKT-mediated cell survival and apoptosis stimulated kinase (MAP3K5)-JNK signaling pathways; sequesters both AKT1 and MAP3K5 and counterbalances the activity of each kinase by modulating their phosphorylation status in response to proinflammatory stimuli. Acts as a regulator of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) unfolded protein response (UPR) pathway; specifically involved in transduction of the ER stress-response to the JNK cascade through ERN1. Mediates TNF-alpha-induced apoptosis activation by facilitating dissociation of inhibitor 14-3-3 from MAP3K5; recruits the PP2A phosphatase complex which dephosphorylates MAP3K5 on Ser-966, leading to the dissociation of 13-3-3 proteins and activation of the MAP3K5-JNK signaling pathway in endothelial cells. Mediates also TNF/TRAF2-induced MAP3K5-JNK activation, while it inhibits CHUK-NF-kappa-B signaling. Acts a negative regulator in the IFN-gamma-mediated JAK-STAT signaling cascade by inhibiting smooth muscle cell (VSMCs) proliferation and intimal expansion, and thus, prevents graft arteriosclerosis (GA). Acts as a GTPase-activating protein (GAP) for the ADP ribosylation factor 6 (ARF6) and Ras. Promotes hydrolysis of the ARF6-bound GTP and thus, negatively regulates phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2)-dependent TLR4-TIRAP-MyD88 and NF-kappa-B signaling pathways in endothelial cells in response to lipopolysaccharides (LPS). Binds specifically to phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate (PtdIns4P) and phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate (PtdIns3P). In response to vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGFA), acts as a negative regulator of the VEGFR2-PI3K-mediated angiogenic signaling pathway by inhibiting endothelial cell migration and tube formation. In the developing brain, promotes both the transition from the multipolar to the bipolar stage and the radial migration of cortical neurons from the ventricular zone toward the superficial layer of the neocortex in a glial-dependent locomotion process. Probable downstream effector of the Reelin signaling pathway; promotes Purkinje cell (PC) dendrites development and formation of cerebellar synapses. Functions also as a tumor suppressor protein in prostate cancer progression; prevents cell proliferation and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) through activation of the glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta (GSK3B)-induced beta-catenin and inhibition of PI3K-AKT and Ras-MAPK survival downstream signaling cascades, respectively.	same
COPG2	empty	COPG2 (Coatomer Protein Complex, Subunit Gamma 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are G-protein signaling RAC1 in cellular process and COPI Mediated Transport. GO annotations related to this gene include structural molecule activity. An important paralog of this gene is COPG1.	The coatomer is a cytosolic protein complex that binds to dilysine motifs and reversibly associates with Golgi non-clathrin-coated vesicles, which further mediate biosynthetic protein transport from the ER, via the Golgi up to the trans Golgi network. Coatomer complex is required for budding from Golgi membranes, and is essential for the retrograde Golgi-to-ER transport of dilysine-tagged proteins. In mammals, the coatomer can only be recruited by membranes associated to ADP-ribosylation factors (ARFs), which are small GTP-binding proteins; the complex also influences the Golgi structural integrity, as well as the processing, activity, and endocytic recycling of LDL receptors (By similarity).	same
DACH1	This gene encodes a chromatin-associated protein that associates with other DNA-binding transcription factors to regulate gene expression and cell fate determination during development. The protein contains a Ski domain that is highly conserved from Drosophila to human. Expression of this gene is lost in some forms of metastatic cancer, and is correlated with poor prognosis. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]	DACH1 (Dachshund Family Transcription Factor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DACH1 include postaxial polydactyly, type a2 and anophthalmia/microphthalmia. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleotide binding and RNA polymerase II core promoter sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity involved in preinitiation complex assembly.	Transcription factor that is involved in regulation of organogenesis. Seems to be a regulator of SIX1, SIX6 and probably SIX5. Corepression of precursor cell proliferation in myoblasts by SIX1 is switched to coactivation through recruitment of EYA3 to the SIX1-DACH1 complex. Transcriptional activation seems also to involve association of CREBBP. Seems to act as a corepressor of SIX6 in regulating proliferation by directly repressing cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors, including the p27Kip1 promoter (By similarity). Inhibits TGF-beta signaling through interaction with SMAD4 and NCOR1. Binds to chromatin DNA via its DACHbox-N domain (By similarity).	same
DAB2	This gene encodes a mitogen-responsive phosphoprotein. It is expressed in normal ovarian epithelial cells, but is down-regulated or absent from ovarian carcinoma cell lines, suggesting its role as a tumor suppressor. This protein binds to the SH3 domains of GRB2, an adaptor protein that couples tyrosine kinase receptors to SOS (a guanine nucleotide exchange factor for Ras), via its C-terminal proline-rich sequences, and may thus modulate growth factor/Ras pathways by competing with SOS for binding to GRB2. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011]	DAB2 (Dab, Mitogen-Responsive Phosphoprotein, Homolog 2 (Drosophila)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Tyrosine Kinases / Adaptors and Endocytosis. GO annotations related to this gene include protein C-terminus binding and SMAD binding. An important paralog of this gene is DAB1.	Adapter protein that functions as clathrin-associated sorting protein (CLASP) required for clathrin-mediated endocytosis of selected cargo proteins. Can bind and assemble clathrin, and binds simultaneously to phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PtdIns(4,5)P2) and cargos containg non-phosphorylated NPXY internalization motifs, such as the LDL receptor, to recruit them to clathrin-coated pits. Can function in clathrin-mediated endocytosis independently of the AP-2 complex. Involved in endocytosis of integrin beta-1; this function seems to redundant with the AP-2 complex and seems to require DAB2 binding to endocytosis accessory EH domain-containing proteins such as EPS15, EPS15L1 and ITSN1. Involved in endocytosis of cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator/CFTR. Involved in endocytosis of megalin/LRP2 lipoprotein receptor during embryonal development. Required for recycling of the TGF-beta receptor. Involved in CFTR trafficking to the late endosome. Involved in several receptor-mediated signaling pathways. Involved in TGF-beta receptor signaling and facilitates phosphorylation of the signal transducer SMAD2. Mediates TFG-beta-stimulated JNK activation. May inhibit the canoniocal Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway by stabilizing the beta-catenin destruction complex through a competing association with axin preventing its dephosphorylation through protein phosphatase 1 (PP1). Sequesters LRP6 towards clathrin-mediated endocytosis, leading to inhibition of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling. May activate non-canonical Wnt signaling. In cell surface growth factor/Ras signaling pathways proposed to inhibit ERK activation by interrupting the binding of GRB2 to SOS1 and to inhibit SRC by preventing its activating phosphorylation at Tyr-419. Proposed to be involved in modulation of androgen receptor (AR) signaling mediated by SRC activation; seems to compete with AR for interaction with SRC. Plays a role in the CSF-1 signal transduction pathway. Plays a role in cellular differentiation. Involved in cell positioning and formation of visceral endoderm (VE) during embryogenesis and proposed to be required in the VE to respond to Nodal signaling coming from the epiblast. Required for the epithelial to mesenchymal transition, a process necessary for proper embryonic development. May be involved in myeloid cell differentiation and can induce macrophage adhesion and spreading. May act as a tumor suppressor.	same
DAD1L	empty	DAD1P1 (Defender Against Cell Death 1 Pseudogene 1) is a Pseudogene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
DACT1	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the dapper family, characterized by the presence of PDZ-binding motif at the C-terminus. It interacts with, and positively regulates dishevelled-mediated signaling pathways during development. Depletion of this mRNA from xenopus embryos resulted in loss of notochord and head structures, and mice lacking this gene died shortly after birth from severe posterior malformations. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012]	DACT1 (Dishevelled-Binding Antagonist Of Beta-Catenin 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DACT1 include craniorachischisis and occipital encephalocele. GO annotations related to this gene include beta-catenin binding and protein kinase A binding. An important paralog of this gene is DACT2.	Involved in regulation of intracellular signaling pathways during development. Specifically thought to play a role in canonical and/or non-canonical Wnt signaling pathways through interaction with DSH (Dishevelled) family proteins. The activation/inhibition of Wnt signaling may depend on the phosphorylation status. Proposed to regulate the degradation of CTNNB1/beta-catenin, thereby modulating the transcriptional activation of target genes of the Wnt signaling pathway. Its function in stabilizing CTNNB1 may involve inhibition of GSK3B activity. Promotes the membrane localization of CTNNB1. The cytoplasmic form can induce DVL2 degradation via a lysosome-dependent mechanism; the function is inhibited by PKA-induced binding to 14-3-3 proteins, such as YWHAB. Seems to be involved in morphogenesis at the primitive streak by regulating VANGL2 and DVL2; the function seems to be independent of canonical Wnt signaling and rather involves the non-canonical Wnt/planar cell polarity (PCP) pathway (By similarity). The nuclear form may prevent the formation of LEF1:CTNNB1 complex and recruit HDAC1 to LEF1 at target gene promoters to repress transcription thus antagonizing Wnt signaling. May be involved in positive regulation of fat cell differentiation. During neuronal differentiation may be involved in excitatory synapse organization, and dendrite formation and establishment of spines.	same
DACT2	empty	DACT2 (Dishevelled-Binding Antagonist Of Beta-Catenin 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are TGF-beta receptor signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include transcription factor binding and protein kinase C binding. An important paralog of this gene is DACT1.	Involved in regulation of intracellular signaling pathways during development. Negatively regulates the Nodal signaling pathway, possibly by promoting the lysosomal degradation of Nodal receptors, such as TGFBR1. May be involved in control of the morphogenetic behavior of kidney ureteric bud cells by keeping cells epithelial and restraining their mesenchymal character. May play an inhibitory role in the re-epithelialization of skin wounds by attenuating TGF-beta signaling (By similarity).	same
DAD1	DAD1, the defender against apoptotic cell death, was initially identified as a negative regulator of programmed cell death in the temperature sensitive tsBN7 cell line. The DAD1 protein disappeared in temperature-sensitive cells following a shift to the nonpermissive temperature, suggesting that loss of the DAD1 protein triggered apoptosis. DAD1 is believed to be a tightly associated subunit of oligosaccharyltransferase both in the intact membrane and in the purified enzyme, thus reflecting the essential nature of N-linked glycosylation in eukaryotes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DAD1 (Defender Against Cell Death 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein. GO annotations related to this gene include dolichyl-diphosphooligosaccharide-protein glycotransferase activity and oligosaccharyl transferase activity.	Essential subunit of the N-oligosaccharyl transferase (OST) complex which catalyzes the transfer of a high mannose oligosaccharide from a lipid-linked oligosaccharide donor to an asparagine residue within an Asn-X-Ser/Thr consensus motif in nascent polypeptide chains. N-glycosylation occurs cotranslationally and the complex associates with the Sec61 complex at the channel-forming translocon complex that mediates protein translocation across the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Loss of the DAD1 protein triggers apoptosis (By similarity).	same
DAGLA	This gene encodes a diacylglycerol lipase. The encoded enzyme is involved in the biosynthesis of the endocannabinoid 2-arachidonoyl-glycerol.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]	DAGLA (Diacylglycerol Lipase, Alpha) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include triglyceride lipase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DAGLB.	Catalyzes the hydrolysis of diacylglycerol (DAG) to 2-arachidonoyl-glycerol (2-AG), the most abundant endocannabinoid in tissues. Required for axonal growth during development and for retrograde synaptic signaling at mature synapses.	same
DAG1	Dystroglycan is a laminin binding component of the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex which provides a linkage between the subsarcolemmal cytoskeleton and the extracellular matrix. Dystroglycan 1 is a candidate gene for the site of the mutation in autosomal recessive muscular dystrophies. The dramatic reduction of dystroglycan 1 in Duchenne muscular dystrophy leads to a loss of linkage between the sarcolemma and extracellular matrix, rendering muscle fibers more susceptible to necrosis. Dystroglycan also functions as dual receptor for agrin and laminin-2 in the Schwann cell membrane. The muscle and nonmuscle isoforms of dystroglycan differ by carbohydrate moieties but not protein sequence. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants all encoding the same protein.[provided by RefSeq, Apr 2010]	DAG1 (Dystroglycan 1 (Dystrophin-Associated Glycoprotein 1)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DAG1 include muscular dystrophy-dystroglycanopathy , type c, 9 and autosomal recessive limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 2p. Among its related pathways are Degradation of the extracellular matrix and Integrin cell surface interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and structural constituent of muscle.	The dystroglycan complex is involved in a number of processes including laminin and basement membrane assembly, sarcolemmal stability, cell survival, peripheral nerve myelination, nodal structure, cell migration, and epithelial polarization	same
DACT3	empty	DACT3 (Dishevelled-Binding Antagonist Of Beta-Catenin 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DACT3 include placenta praevia. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and protein kinase A binding.	May be involved in regulation of intracellular signaling pathways during development. Specifically thought to play a role in canonical and/or non-canonical Wnt signaling pathways through interaction with DSH (Dishevelled) family proteins.	same
DAND5	This gene encodes a member of the BMP (bone morphogenic protein) antagonist family. Like BMPs, BMP antagonists contain cystine knots and typically form homo- and heterodimers. The CAN (cerberus and dan) subfamily of BMP antagonists, to which this gene belongs, is characterized by a C-terminal cystine knot with an eight-membered ring. The antagonistic effect of the secreted protein encoded by this gene is likely due to its direct binding to BMP proteins. As an antagonist of BMP, this gene may play a role in regulating organogenesis, body patterning, and tissue differentiation. In mouse, this protein has been shown to bind Nodal and to inhibit the Nodal signaling pathway which patterns left/right body asymmetry. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DAND5 (DAN Domain Family Member 5, BMP Antagonist) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DAND5 include malignant syringoma and syringoma. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include morphogen activity. An important paralog of this gene is CER1.	Seems to play a role in the correct specification of the left-right axis. May antagonize NODAL and BMP4 signaling. Cystine knot-containing proteins play important roles during development, organogenesis, tissue growth and differentiation (By similarity).	same
DALRD3	The exact function of this gene is not known. It encodes a protein with a DALR anticodon binding domain similar to that of class Ia aminoacyl tRNA synthetases. This gene is located in a cluster of genes (with a complex sense-anti-sense genome architecture) on chromosome 3, and contains two micro RNA (miRNA) precursors (mir-425 and mir-191) in one of its introns. Preferential expression of this gene (the miRNAs and other genes in the cluster) in testis suggests a role of this gene in spermatogenesis (PMID:19906709). [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2013]	DALRD3 (DALR Anticodon Binding Domain Containing 3) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include arginine-tRNA ligase activity.	empty	same
DAOA	This gene encodes a protein that may function as an activator of D-amino acid oxidase, which degrades the gliotransmitter D-serine, a potent activator of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) type glutamate receptors. Studies also suggest that one encoded isoform may play a role in mitochondrial function and dendritic arborization. Polymorphisms in this gene have been implicated in susceptibility to schizophrenia and bipolar affective disorder. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]	DAOA (D-Amino Acid Oxidase Activator) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DAOA include childhood-onset schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. GO annotations related to this gene include enzyme binding and enzyme activator activity.	Seems to activate D-amino acid oxidase	same
DAK	This gene is a member of the family of dihydroxyacetone kinases, which have a protein structure distinct from other kinases. The product of this gene phosphorylates dihydroxyacetone, and also catalyzes the formation of riboflavin 4',5'-phosphate (aka cyclin FMN) from FAD. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified, but the full-length nature of only one has been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	TKFC (Triokinase/FMN Cyclase) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and RIG-I/MDA5 mediated induction of IFN-alpha/beta pathways.	Catalyzes both the phosphorylation of dihydroxyacetone and of glyceraldehyde, and the splitting of ribonucleoside diphosphate-X compounds among which FAD is the best substrate.	diff
DAP3	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein that also participates in apoptotic pathways which are initiated by tumor necrosis factor-alpha, Fas ligand, and gamma interferon. This protein potentially binds ATP/GTP and might be a functional partner of the mitoribosomal protein S27. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. Pseudogenes corresponding to this gene are found on chromosomes 1q and 2q. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]	DAP3 (Death Associated Protein 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are FAS (CD95) signaling pathway and TWEAK Pathway.	Involved in mediating interferon-gamma-induced cell death	same
DAPK2	This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the serine/threonine protein kinase family. This protein contains a N-terminal protein kinase domain followed by a conserved calmodulin-binding domain with significant similarity to that of death-associated protein kinase 1 (DAPK1), a positive regulator of programmed cell death. Overexpression of this gene was shown to induce cell apoptosis. It uses multiple polyadenylation sites. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DAPK2 (Death-Associated Protein Kinase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Pathways in cancer and Glioma. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and calmodulin binding. An important paralog of this gene is MYLK4.	Calcium/calmodulin-dependent serine/threonine kinase involved in multiple cellular signaling pathways that trigger cell survival, apoptosis, and autophagy. Regulates both type I apoptotic and type II autophagic cell deaths signal, depending on the cellular setting. The former is caspase-dependent, while the latter is caspase-independent and is characterized by the accumulation of autophagic vesicles. Acts as a mediator of anoikis and a suppressor of beta-catenin-dependent anchorage-independent growth of malignant epithelial cells. May play a role in granulocytic maturation	same
DAPP1	empty	DAPP1 (Dual Adaptor Of Phosphotyrosine And 3-Phosphoinositides) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Downstream Signaling Events Of B Cell Receptor (BCR) and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphate binding.	May act as a B-cell-associated adapter that regulates B-cell antigen receptor (BCR)-signaling downstream of PI3K.	same
DAPK3	Death-associated protein kinase 3 (DAPK3) induces morphological changes in apoptosis when overexpressed in mammalian cells. These results suggest that DAPK3 may play a role in the induction of apoptosis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DAPK3 (Death-Associated Protein Kinase 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DAPK3 include recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa. Among its related pathways are Pathways in cancer and Apoptotic Pathways in Synovial Fibroblasts. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and protein serine/threonine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is MYLK4.	Serine/threonine kinase which is involved in the regulation of apoptosis, autophagy, transcription, translation and actin cytoskeleton reorganization. Involved in the regulation of smooth muscle contraction. Regulates both type I (caspase-dependent) apoptotic and type II (caspase-independent) autophagic cell deaths signal, depending on the cellular setting. Involved in regulation of starvation-induced autophagy. Regulates myosin phosphorylation in both smooth muscle and non-muscle cells. In smooth muscle, regulates myosin either directly by phosphorylating MYL12B and MYL9 or through inhibition of smooth muscle myosin phosphatase (SMPP1M) via phosphorylation of PPP1R12A; the inhibition of SMPP1M functions to enhance muscle responsiveness to Ca(2+) and promote a contractile state. Phosphorylates MYL12B in non-muscle cells leading to reorganization of actin cytoskeleton. Isoform 2 can phosphorylate myosin, PPP1R12A and MYL12B. Overexpression leads to condensation of actin stress fibers into thick bundles. Involved in actin filament focal adhesion dynamics. The function in both reorganization of actin cytoskeleton and focal adhesion dissolution is modulated by RhoD. Positively regulates canonical Wnt/beta-catenin signaling through interaction with NLK and TCF7L2. Phosphorylates RPL13A on Ser-77 upon interferon-gamma activation which is causing RPL13A release from the ribosome, RPL13A association with the GAIT complex and its subsequent involvement in transcript-selective translation inhibition. Enhances transcription from AR-responsive promoters in a hormone- and kinase-dependent manner. Involved in regulation of cell cycle progression and cell proliferation. May be a tumor suppressor.	same
DAP	This gene encodes a basic, proline-rich, 15-kD protein. The protein acts as a positive mediator of programmed cell death that is induced by interferon-gamma. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2014]	DAP (Death-Associated Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Akt Signaling and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include death domain binding.	Negative regulator of autophagy. Involved in mediating interferon-gamma-induced cell death.	same
DARC	The protein encoded by this gene is a glycosylated membrane protein and a non-specific receptor for several chemokines. The encoded protein is the receptor for the human malarial parasites Plasmodium vivax and Plasmodium knowlesi. Polymorphisms in this gene are the basis of the Duffy blood group system. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	ACKR1 (Atypical Chemokine Receptor 1 (Duffy Blood Group)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR.	Atypical chemokine receptor that controls chemokine levels and localization via high-affinity chemokine binding that is uncoupled from classic ligand-driven signal transduction cascades, resulting instead in chemokine sequestration, degradation, or transcytosis. Also known as interceptor (internalizing receptor) or chemokine-scavenging receptor or chemokine decoy receptor. Has a promiscuous chemokine-binding profile, interacting with inflammatory chemokines of both the CXC and the CC subfamilies but not with homeostatic chemokines. Acts as a receptor for chemokines including CCL2, CCL5, CCL7, CCL11, CCL13, CCL14, CCL17, CXCL5, CXCL6, IL8/CXCL8, CXCL11, GRO, RANTES, MCP-1, TARC and also for the malaria parasites P.vivax and P.knowlesi. May regulate chemokine bioavailability and, consequently, leukocyte recruitment through two distinct mechanisms: when expressed in endothelial cells, it sustains the abluminal to luminal transcytosis of tissue-derived chemokines and their subsequent presentation to circulating leukocytes; when expressed in erythrocytes, serves as blood reservoir of cognate chemokines but also as a chemokine sink, buffering potential surges in plasma chemokine levels	diff
DACH2	This gene is one of two genes which encode a protein similar to the Drosophila protein dachshund, a transcription factor involved in cell fate determination in the eye, limb and genital disc of the fly. The encoded protein contains two characteristic dachshund domains: an N-terminal domain responsible for DNA binding and a C-terminal domain responsible for protein-protein interactions. This gene is located on the X chromosome and is subject to inactivation by DNA methylation. The encoded protein may be involved in regulation of organogenesis and myogenesis, and may play a role in premature ovarian failure. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]	DACH2 (Dachshund Family Transcription Factor 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DACH2 include allan-herndon-dudley syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleotide binding.	Transcription factor that is involved in regulation of organogenesis. Seems to be a regulator for SIX1 and SIX6. Seems to act as a corepressor of SIX6 in regulating proliferation by directly repressing cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors, including the p27Kip1 promoter. Is recruited with SIX6 to the p27Kip1 promoter in embryonal retina. SIX6 corepression seems also to involve NCOR1, TBL1, HDAC1 and HDAC3. May be involved together with PAX3, SIX1, and EYA2 in regulation of myogenesis. In the developing somite, expression of DACH2 and PAX3 is regulated by the overlying ectoderm, and DACH2 and PAX3 positively regulate each others expression (By similarity). Probably binds to DNA via its DACHbox-N domain.	same
DARS	This gene encodes a member of a multienzyme complex that functions in mediating the attachment of amino acids to their cognate tRNAs. The encoded protein ligates L-aspartate to tRNA(Asp). Mutations in this gene have been found in patients showing hypomyelination with brainstem and spinal cord involvement and leg spasticity. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2014]	DARS (Aspartyl-TRNA Synthetase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DARS include hypomyelination with brainstem and spinal cord involvement and leg spasticity and spasticity. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and tRNA Aminoacylation. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleic acid binding and aspartate-tRNA ligase activity.	Catalyzes the specific attachment of an amino acid to its cognate tRNA in a 2 step reaction: the amino acid (AA) is first activated by ATP to form AA-AMP and then transferred to the acceptor end of the tRNA	same
DAXX	This gene encodes a multifunctional protein that resides in multiple locations in the nucleus and in the cytoplasm. It interacts with a wide variety of proteins, such as apoptosis antigen Fas, centromere protein C, and transcription factor erythroblastosis virus E26 oncogene homolog 1. In the nucleus, the encoded protein functions as a potent transcription repressor that binds to sumoylated transcription factors. Its repression can be relieved by the sequestration of this protein into promyelocytic leukemia nuclear bodies or nucleoli. This protein also associates with centromeres in G2 phase. In the cytoplasm, the encoded protein may function to regulate apoptosis. The subcellular localization and function of this protein are modulated by post-translational modifications, including sumoylation, phosphorylation and polyubiquitination. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]	DAXX (Death-Domain Associated Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are MAPK signaling pathway and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and enzyme binding.	Transcription corepressor known to repress transcriptional potential of several sumoylated transcription factors. Down-regulates basal and activated transcription. Its transcription repressor activity is modulated by recruiting it to subnuclear compartments like the nucleolus or PML/POD/ND10 nuclear bodies through interactions with MCSR1 and PML, respectively. Seems to regulate transcription in PML/POD/ND10 nuclear bodies together with PML and may influence TNFRSF6-dependent apoptosis thereby. Inhibits transcriptional activatiopn of PAX3 and ETS1 through direct protein-protein interactions. Modulates PAX5 activity; the function seems to involve CREBBP. Acts as an adapter protein in a MDM2-DAXX-USP7 complex by regulating the RING-finger E3 ligase MDM2 ubiquitination activity. Under non-stress condition, in association with the deubiquitinating USP7, prevents MDM2 self-ubiquitination and enhances the intrinsic E3 ligase activity of MDM2 towards TP53, thereby promoting TP53 ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation. Upon DNA damage, its association with MDM2 and USP7 is disrupted, resulting in increased MDM2 autoubiquitination and consequently, MDM2 degradation, which leads to TP53 stabilization. Acts as histone chaperone that facilitates deposition of histone H3.3. Acts as targeting component of the chromatin remodeling complex ATRX:DAXX which has ATP-dependent DNA translocase activity and catalyzes the replication-independent deposition of histone H3.3 in pericentric DNA repeats outside S-phase and telomeres, and the in vitro remodeling of H3.3-containing nucleosomes. Does not affect the ATPase activity of ATRX but alleviates its transcription repression activity. Upopn neuronal activation asociates with regulatory elements of selected immediate early genes where it promotes deposition of histone H3.3 which may be linked to transcriptional induction of these genes. Required for the recruitment of histone H3.3:H4 dimers to PML-nuclear bodies (PML-NBs); the process is independent of ATRX and facilitated by ASF1A; PML-NBs are suggested to function as regulatory sites for the incorporation of newly synthesized histone H3.3 into chromatin. In case of overexpression of centromeric histone variant CENPA (as found in various tumors) is involved in its mislocalization to chromosomes; the ectopic localization involves a heterotypic tetramer containing CENPA, and histones H3.3 and H4 and decreases binding of CTCF to chromatin. Proposed to mediate activation of the JNK pathway and apoptosis via MAP3K5 in response to signaling from TNFRSF6 and TGFBR2. Interaction with HSPB1/HSP27 may prevent interaction with TNFRSF6 and MAP3K5 and block DAXX-mediated apoptosis. In contrast, in lymphoid cells JNC activation and TNFRSF6-mediated apoptosis may not involve DAXX. Shows restriction activity towards human cytomegalovirus (HCMV).	same
DAO	This gene encodes the peroxisomal enzyme D-amino acid oxidase. The enzyme is a flavoprotein which uses flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) as its prosthetic group. Its substrates include a wide variety of D-amino acids, but it is inactive on the naturally occurring L-amino acids. Its biological function is not known; it may act as a detoxifying agent which removes D-amino acids that accumulate during aging. In mice, it degrades D-serine, a co-agonist of the NMDA receptor. This gene may play a role in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DAO (D-Amino-Acid Oxidase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DAO include schizophrenia and primary hyperoxaluria. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Arginine and proline metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and cofactor binding. An important paralog of this gene is DDO.	Regulates the level of the neuromodulator D-serine in the brain. Has high activity towards D-DOPA and contributes to dopamine synthesis. Could act as a detoxifying agent which removes D-amino acids accumulated during aging. Acts on a variety of D-amino acids with a preference for those having small hydrophobic side chains followed by those bearing polar, aromatic, and basic groups. Does not act on acidic amino acids.	same
AIMP1	The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that is specifically induced by apoptosis, and it is involved in the control of angiogenesis, inflammation, and wound healing. The release of this cytokine renders the tumor-associated vasculature sensitive to tumor necrosis factor. The precursor protein is identical to the p43 subunit, which is associated with the multi-tRNA synthetase complex, and it modulates aminoacylation activity of tRNA synthetase in normal cells. This protein is also involved in the stimulation of inflammatory responses after proteolytic cleavage in tumor cells. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. A pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 20. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]	AIMP1 (Aminoacyl TRNA Synthetase Complex-Interacting Multifunctional Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AIMP1 include leukodystrophy, hypomyelinating, 3 and pelizaeus-merzbacher-like disease due to aimp1 mutation. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and tRNA Aminoacylation. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and tRNA binding.	Non-catalytic component of the multisynthase complex. Stimulates the catalytic activity of cytoplasmic arginyl-tRNA synthase. Binds tRNA. Possesses inflammatory cytokine activity. Negatively regulates TGF-beta signaling through stabilization of SMURF2 by binding to SMURF2 and inhibiting its SMAD7-mediated degradation. Involved in glucose homeostasis through induction of glucagon secretion at low glucose levels. Promotes dermal fibroblast proliferation and wound repair. Regulates KDELR1-mediated retention of HSP90B1/gp96 in the endoplasmic reticulum. Plays a role in angiogenesis by inducing endothelial cell migration at low concentrations and endothelian cell apoptosis at high concentrations. Induces maturation of dendritic cells and monocyte cell adhesion. Modulates endothelial cell responses by degrading HIF-1A through interaction with PSMA7.	same
DARS2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the class-II aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase family. It is a mitochondrial enzyme that specifically aminoacylates aspartyl-tRNA. Mutations in this gene are associated with leukoencephalopathy with brainstem and spinal cord involvement and lactate elevation (LBSL). [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009]	DARS2 (Aspartyl-TRNA Synthetase 2, Mitochondrial) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DARS2 include leukoencephalopathy with brain stem and spinal cord involvement and lactate elevation and leukoencephalopathy with brain stem and spinal cord involvement - high lactate. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and tRNA Aminoacylation. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and aspartate-tRNA ligase activity.	empty	same
DAZ2	This gene is a member of the DAZ gene family and is a candidate for the human Y-chromosomal azoospermia factor (AZF). Its expression is restricted to premeiotic germ cells, particularly in spermatogonia. It encodes an RNA-binding protein that is important for spermatogenesis. Four copies of this gene are found on chromosome Y within palindromic duplications; one pair of genes is part of the P2 palindrome and the second pair is part of the P1 palindrome. Each gene contains a 2.4 kb repeat including a 72-bp exon, called the DAZ repeat; the number of DAZ repeats is variable and there are several variations in the sequence of the DAZ repeat. Each copy of the gene also contains a 10.8 kb region that may be amplified; this region includes five exons that encode an RNA recognition motif (RRM) domain. This gene contains one copy of the 10.8 kb repeat. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DAZ2 (Deleted In Azoospermia 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DAZ2 include partial deletion of y and oligospermia. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and nucleotide binding. An important paralog of this gene is DAZL.	RNA-binding protein that plays an essential role in spermatogenesis. May act by binding to the 3-UTR of mRNAs and regulating their translation	same
DAZ1	This gene is a member of the DAZ gene family and is a candidate for the human Y-chromosomal azoospermia factor (AZF). Its expression is restricted to premeiotic germ cells, particularly in spermatogonia. It encodes an RNA-binding protein that is important for spermatogenesis. Four copies of this gene are found on chromosome Y within palindromic duplications; one pair of genes is part of the P2 palindrome and the second pair is part of the P1 palindrome. Each gene contains a 2.4 kb repeat including a 72-bp exon, called the DAZ repeat; the number of DAZ repeats is variable and there are several variations in the sequence of the DAZ repeat. Each copy of the gene also contains a 10.8 kb region that may be amplified; this region includes five exons that encode an RNA recognition motif (RRM) domain. This gene contains three copies of the 10.8 kb repeat. However, no transcripts containing three copies of the RRM domain have been described; thus the RefSeq for this gene contains only two RRM domains. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DAZ1 (Deleted In Azoospermia 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DAZ1 include azoospermia and partial deletion of y. Among its related pathways are Translational Control. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and translation activator activity. An important paralog of this gene is DAZL.	RNA-binding protein that plays an essential role in spermatogenesis. May act by binding to the 3-UTR of mRNAs and regulating their translation. Promotes germ-cell progression to meiosis and formation of haploid germ cells.	same
DAZ3	This gene is a member of the DAZ gene family and is a candidate for the human Y-chromosomal azoospermia factor (AZF). Its expression is restricted to premeiotic germ cells, particularly in spermatogonia. It encodes an RNA-binding protein that is important for spermatogenesis. Four copies of this gene are found on chromosome Y within palindromic duplications; one pair of genes is part of the P2 palindrome and the second pair is part of the P1 palindrome. Each gene contains a 2.4 kb repeat including a 72-bp exon, called the DAZ repeat; the number of DAZ repeats is variable and there are several variations in the sequence of the DAZ repeat. Each copy of the gene also contains a 10.8 kb region that may be amplified; this region includes five exons that encode an RNA recognition motif (RRM) domain. This gene contains one copy of the 10.8 kb repeat. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DAZ3 (Deleted In Azoospermia 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DAZ3 include partial deletion of y and azoospermia. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and nucleotide binding. An important paralog of this gene is DAZL.	RNA-binding protein that plays an essential role in spermatogenesis. May act by binding to the 3-UTR of mRNAs and regulating their translation	same
DAZ4	This gene is a member of the DAZ gene family and is a candidate for the human Y-chromosomal azoospermia factor (AZF). Its expression is restricted to premeiotic germ cells, particularly in spermatogonia. It encodes an RNA-binding protein that is important for spermatogenesis. Four copies of this gene are found on chromosome Y within palindromic duplications; one pair of genes is part of the P2 palindrome and the second pair is part of the P1 palindrome. Each gene contains a 2.4 kb repeat including a 72-bp exon, called the DAZ repeat; the number of DAZ repeats is variable and there are several variations in the sequence of the DAZ repeat. Each copy of the gene also contains a 10.8 kb region that may be amplified; this region includes five exons that encode an RNA recognition motif (RRM) domain. This gene contains two copies of the 10.8 kb repeat. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]	DAZ4 (Deleted In Azoospermia 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DAZ4 include partial deletion of y and azoospermia. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and nucleotide binding. An important paralog of this gene is DAZL.	RNA-binding protein that plays an essential role in spermatogenesis. May act by binding to the 3-UTR of mRNAs and regulating their translation	same
DAZAP1	In mammals, the Y chromosome directs the development of the testes and plays an important role in spermatogenesis. A high percentage of infertile men have deletions that map to regions of the Y chromosome. The DAZ (deleted in azoospermia) gene cluster maps to the AZFc region of the Y chromosome and is deleted in many azoospermic and severely oligospermic men. It is thought that the DAZ gene cluster arose from the transposition, amplification, and pruning of the ancestral autosomal gene DAZL also involved in germ cell development and gametogenesis. This gene encodes a RNA-binding protein with two RNP motifs that was originally identified by its interaction with the infertility factors DAZ and DAZL. Two isoforms are encoded by transcript variants of this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DAZAP1 (DAZ Associated Protein 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DAZAP1 include azoospermia. Among its related pathways are mRNA surveillance pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and RNA stem-loop binding. An important paralog of this gene is MSI1.	RNA-binding protein, which may be required during spermatogenesis	same
DBC1	empty	empty	empty	same
DAPL1	empty	DAPL1 (Death Associated Protein-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	May play a role in the early stages of epithelial differentiation or in apoptosis.	same
DAPK1	Death-associated protein kinase 1 is a positive mediator of gamma-interferon induced programmed cell death. DAPK1 encodes a structurally unique 160-kD calmodulin dependent serine-threonine kinase that carries 8 ankyrin repeats and 2 putative P-loop consensus sites. It is a tumor suppressor candidate. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2013]	DAPK1 (Death-Associated Protein Kinase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DAPK1 include pediatric lymphoma and central nervous system lymphoma. Among its related pathways are Pathways in cancer and Glioma. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and protein kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is MYLK4.	Calcium/calmodulin-dependent serine/threonine kinase involved in multiple cellular signaling pathways that trigger cell survival, apoptosis, and autophagy. Regulates both type I apoptotic and type II autophagic cell deaths signal, depending on the cellular setting. The former is caspase-dependent, while the latter is caspase-independent and is characterized by the accumulation of autophagic vesicles. Phosphorylates PIN1 resulting in inhibition of its catalytic activity, nuclear localization, and cellular function. Phosphorylates TPM1, enhancing stress fiber formation in endothelial cells. Phosphorylates STX1A and significantly decreases its binding to STXBP1. Phosphorylates PRKD1 and regulates JNK signaling by binding and activating PRKD1 under oxidative stress. Phosphorylates BECN1, reducing its interaction with BCL2 and BCL2L1 and promoting the induction of autophagy. Phosphorylates TSC2, disrupting the TSC1-TSC2 complex and stimulating mTORC1 activity in a growth factor-dependent pathway. Phosphorylates RPS6, MYL9 and DAPK3. Acts as a signaling amplifier of NMDA receptors at extrasynaptic sites for mediating brain damage in stroke. Cerebral ischemia recruits DAPK1 into the NMDA receptor complex and it phosphorylates GRINB at Ser-1303 inducing injurious Ca(2+) influx through NMDA receptor channels, resulting in an irreversible neuronal death. Required together with DAPK3 for phosphorylation of RPL13A upon interferon-gamma activation which is causing RPL13A involvement in transcript-selective translation inhibition	same
DAZL	The DAZ (Deleted in AZoospermia) gene family encodes potential RNA binding proteins that are expressed in prenatal and postnatal germ cells of males and females. The protein encoded by this gene is localized to the nucleus and cytoplasm of fetal germ cells and to the cytoplasm of developing oocytes. In the testis, this protein is localized to the nucleus of spermatogonia but relocates to the cytoplasm during meiosis where it persists in spermatids and spermatozoa. Transposition and amplification of this autosomal gene during primate evolution gave rise to the DAZ gene cluster on the Y chromosome. Mutations in this gene have been linked to severe spermatogenic failure and infertility in males. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	DAZL (Deleted In Azoospermia-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DAZL include azoospermia and paraneoplastic syndromes. Among its related pathways are Translational Control and Ovarian Infertility Genes. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and translation activator activity. An important paralog of this gene is DAZ4.	RNA-binding protein, which is essential for gametogenesis in both males and females. Plays a central role during spermatogenesis. Acts by binding to the 3-UTR of mRNA, specifically recognizing GUU triplets, and thereby regulating the translation of key transcripts (By similarity).	same
DBF4B	This gene encodes a regulator of the cell division cycle 7 homolog (S. cerevisiae) protein, a serine-threonine kinase which links cell cycle regulation to genome duplication. This protein localizes to the nucleus and, in complex with the cell division cycle 7 homolog (S. cerevisiae) protein, may facilitate M phase progression. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]	DBF4B (DBF4 Zinc Finger B) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are E2F mediated regulation of DNA replication. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleic acid binding. An important paralog of this gene is DBF4.	Regulatory subunit for CDC7 which activates its kinase activity thereby playing a central role in DNA replication and cell proliferation. Required for progression of S and M phases. The complex CDC7-DBF4B selectively phosphorylates MCM2 subunit at Ser-40 and then is involved in regulating the initiation of DNA replication during cell cycle.	same
DAZAP2	This gene encodes a proline-rich protein which interacts with the deleted in azoospermia (DAZ) and the deleted in azoospermia-like gene through the DAZ-like repeats. This protein also interacts with the transforming growth factor-beta signaling molecule SARA (Smad anchor for receptor activation), eukaryotic initiation factor 4G, and an E3 ubiquitinase that regulates its stability in splicing factor containing nuclear speckles. The encoded protein may function in various biological and pathological processes including spermatogenesis, cell signaling and transcription regulation, formation of stress granules during translation arrest, RNA splicing, and pathogenesis of multiple myeloma. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]	DAZAP2 (DAZ Associated Protein 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DAZAP2 include azoospermia and multiple myeloma. Among its related pathways are Diurnally regulated genes with circadian orthologs. GO annotations related to this gene include WW domain binding.	empty	same
DBF4	empty	DBF4 (DBF4 Zinc Finger) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleic acid binding and enzyme activator activity. An important paralog of this gene is DBF4B.	Regulatory subunit for CDC7 which activates its kinase activity thereby playing a central role in DNA replication and cell proliferation. Required for progression of S phase. The complex CDC7-DBF4A selectively phosphorylates MCM2 subunit at Ser-40 and Ser-53 and then is involved in regulating the initiation of DNA replication during cell cycle.	same
DBN1	The protein encoded by this gene is a cytoplasmic actin-binding protein thought to play a role in the process of neuronal growth. It is a member of the drebrin family of proteins that are developmentally regulated in the brain. A decrease in the amount of this protein in the brain has been implicated as a possible contributing factor in the pathogenesis of memory disturbance in Alzheimer's disease. At least two alternative splice variants encoding different protein isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DBN1 (Drebrin 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DBN1 include schizophrenia. Among its related pathways are Cytoskeletal Signaling and Signaling in Gap Junctions. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding and profilin binding. An important paralog of this gene is CTTN.	Drebrins might play some role in cell migration, extension of neuronal processes and plasticity of dendrites. Required for actin polymerization at immunological synapses (IS) and for CXCR4 recruitment to IS.	same
DBNDD2	empty	DBNDD2 (Dysbindin (Dystrobrevin Binding Protein 1) Domain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is DTNBP1.	May modulate the activity of casein kinase-1. Inhibits CSNK1D autophosphorylation (in vitro).	same
DBNL	empty	DBNL (Drebrin-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are CDK-mediated phosphorylation and removal of Cdc6 and B cell receptor signaling pathway (KEGG). GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding and protein domain specific binding. An important paralog of this gene is DBN1.	Adapter protein that binds F-actin and DNM1, and thereby plays a role in receptor-mediated endocytosis. Plays a role in the reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton, formation of cell projections, such as neurites, in neuron morphogenesis and synapse formation via its interaction with WASL and COBL. Does not bind G-actin and promote actin polymerization by itself. Required for the formation of organized podosome rosettes (By similarity). May act as a common effector of antigen receptor-signaling pathways in leukocytes. Acts as a key component of the immunological synapse that regulates T-cell activation by bridging TCRs and the actin cytoskeleton to gene activation and endocytic processes.	same
DBH	The protein encoded by this gene is an oxidoreductase belonging to the copper type II, ascorbate-dependent monooxygenase family. It is present in the synaptic vesicles of postganglionic sympathetic neurons and converts dopamine to norepinephrine. It exists in both soluble and membrane-bound forms, depending on the absence or presence, respectively, of a signal peptide. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DBH (Dopamine Beta-Hydroxylase (Dopamine Beta-Monooxygenase)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DBH include dopamine beta-hydroxylase deficiency and capgras syndrome. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include copper ion binding and dopamine beta-monooxygenase activity. An important paralog of this gene is MOXD1.	Conversion of dopamine to noradrenaline	same
DCAF10	empty	DCAF10 (DDB1 And CUL4 Associated Factor 10) is a Protein Coding gene.	May function as a substrate receptor for CUL4-DDB1 E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex.	same
DCAF11	This gene encodes a WD repeat-containing protein that interacts with the COP9 signalosome, a macromolecular complex that interacts with cullin-RING E3 ligases and regulates their activity by hydrolyzing cullin-Nedd8 conjugates. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009]	DCAF11 (DDB1 And CUL4 Associated Factor 11) is a Protein Coding gene.	May function as a substrate receptor for CUL4-DDB1 E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex.	same
DAGLB	empty	DAGLB (Diacylglycerol Lipase, Beta) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include triglyceride lipase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DAGLA.	Catalyzes the hydrolysis of diacylglycerol (DAG) to 2-arachidonoyl-glycerol (2-AG), the most abundant endocannabinoid in tissues. Required for axonal growth during development and for retrograde synaptic signaling at mature synapses.	same
DBX1	empty	DBX1 (Developing Brain Homeobox 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and transcription regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is DBX2.	Could have a role in patterning the central nervous system during embryogenesis. Has a key role in regulating the distinct phenotypic features that distinguish two major classes of ventral interneurons, V0 and V1 neurons. Regulates the transcription factor profile, neurotransmitter phenotype, intraspinal migratory path and axonal trajectory of V0 neurons, features that differentiate them from an adjacent set of V1 neurons (By similarity).	same
DBX2	empty	DBX2 (Developing Brain Homeobox 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and transcription regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is HHEX.	empty	same
DBP	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the PAR bZIP transcription factor family and binds to specific sequences in the promoters of several genes, such as albumin, CYP2A4, and CYP2A5. The encoded protein can bind DNA as a homo- or heterodimer and is involved in the regulation of some circadian rhythm genes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]	DBP (D Site Of Albumin Promoter (Albumin D-Box) Binding Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DBP include hemophilia b and graves' disease. Among its related pathways are Circadian Clock and Circadian Clock. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA polymerase II core promoter proximal region sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity involved in positive regulation of transcription and RNA polymerase II regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is TEF.	This transcriptional activator recognizes and binds to the sequence 5-RTTAYGTAAY-3 found in the promoter of genes such as albumin, CYP2A4 and CYP2A5. It is not essential for circadian rhythm generation, but modulates important clock output genes. May be a direct target for regulation by the circadian pacemaker component clock. May affect circadian period and sleep regulation	same
DCAF12L2	This gene encodes a member of the WD repeat protein family. WD repeats are minimally conserved regions of approximately 40 amino acids typically bracketed by Gly-His and Trp-Asp (GH-WD), which may facilitate formation of heterotrimeric or multi-protein complexes. Members of this family are involved in a variety of cellular processes, including cell cycle progression, signal transduction, apoptosis, and gene regulation. This gene appears to represent an intronless retrocopy of a related multi-exon gene located on chromosome 9. However, the CDS of this intronless gene remains intact, it is conserved in other mammalian species, it is known to be transcribed, and it is therefore thought to encode a functional protein. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	DCAF12L2 (DDB1 And CUL4 Associated Factor 12-Like 2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is DCAF12L1.	empty	same
DCAF12	This gene encodes a WD repeat-containing protein that interacts with the COP9 signalosome, a macromolecular complex that interacts with cullin-RING E3 ligases and regulates their activity by hydrolyzing cullin-Nedd8 conjugates. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009]	DCAF12 (DDB1 And CUL4 Associated Factor 12) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is DCAF12L1.	May function as a substrate receptor for CUL4-DDB1 E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex.	same
DCAF13	empty	DCAF13 (DDB1 And CUL4 Associated Factor 13) is a Protein Coding gene.	Possible role in ribosomal RNA processing (By similarity). May function as a substrate receptor for CUL4-DDB1 E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex.	same
DBI	This gene encodes diazepam binding inhibitor, a protein that is regulated by hormones and is involved in lipid metabolism and the displacement of beta-carbolines and benzodiazepines, which modulate signal transduction at type A gamma-aminobutyric acid receptors located in brain synapses. The protein is conserved from yeast to mammals, with the most highly conserved domain consisting of seven contiguous residues that constitute the hydrophobic binding site for medium- and long-chain acyl-Coenzyme A esters. Diazepam binding inhibitor is also known to mediate the feedback regulation of pancreatic secretion and the postprandial release of cholecystokinin, in addition to its role as a mediator in corticotropin-dependent adrenal steroidogenesis. Three pseudogenes located on chromosomes 6, 8 and 16 have been identified. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DBI (Diazepam Binding Inhibitor (GABA Receptor Modulator, Acyl-CoA Binding Protein)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DBI include withdrawal disorder and alcoholic pancreatitis. Among its related pathways are Regulation of Cholesterol Biosynthesis by SREBP (SREBF) and Benzodiazepine Pathway, Pharmacodynamics. GO annotations related to this gene include lipid binding and benzodiazepine receptor binding. An important paralog of this gene is ACBD7.	Binds medium- and long-chain acyl-CoA esters with very high affinity and may function as an intracellular carrier of acyl-CoA esters. It is also able to displace diazepam from the benzodiazepine (BZD) recognition site located on the GABA type A receptor. It is therefore possible that this protein also acts as a neuropeptide to modulate the action of the GABA receptor	same
DCAF17	This gene encodes a nuclear transmembrane protein that associates with cullin 4A/damaged DNA binding protein 1 ubiquitin ligase complex. Mutations in this gene are associated with Woodhouse-Sakati syndrome. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009]	DCAF17 (DDB1 And CUL4 Associated Factor 17) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DCAF17 include woodhouse-sakati syndrome and hypogonadism, alopecia, diabetes mellitus, mental retardation, and extrapyramidal syndrome.	May function as a substrate receptor for CUL4-DDB1 E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex.	same
DCAF4L1	empty	DCAF4L1 (DDB1 And CUL4 Associated Factor 4-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is DCAF4.	empty	same
DCAF4L2	empty	DCAF4L2 (DDB1 And CUL4 Associated Factor 4-Like 2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is DCAF4L1.	empty	same
DBNDD1	empty	DBNDD1 (Dysbindin (Dystrobrevin Binding Protein 1) Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
DCAF5	empty	DCAF5 (DDB1 And CUL4 Associated Factor 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DCAF5 include leiomyoma.	May function as a substrate receptor for CUL4-DDB1 E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex.	same
DCAF4	This gene encodes a WD repeat-containing protein that interacts with the Cul4-Ddb1 E3 ligase macromolecular complex. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009]	DCAF4 (DDB1 And CUL4 Associated Factor 4) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is DCAF4L1.	May function as a substrate receptor for CUL4-DDB1 E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex.	same
DBR1	The protein encoded by this gene is an RNA lariat debranching enzyme that hydrolyzes 2'-5' prime branched phosphodiester bonds. The encoded protein specifically targets the bonds at the branch point of excised lariat intron RNA, converting them to linear molecules that are then degraded. This protein may also be involved in retroviral replication. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011]	DBR1 (Debranching RNA Lariats 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA lariat debranching enzyme activity.	Cleaves the 2-5 phosphodiester linkage at the branch point of lariat intron pre-mRNAs after splicing and converts them into linear molecules that are subsequently degraded. It thereby facilitates ribonucleotide turnover. It may also participate in retrovirus replication via an RNA lariat intermediate in cDNA synthesis.	same
DCAF8L2	empty	DCAF8L2 (DDB1 And CUL4 Associated Factor 8-Like 2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is DCAF8.	empty	same
DCAF6	empty	DCAF6 (DDB1 And CUL4 Associated Factor 6) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include ligand-dependent nuclear receptor transcription coactivator activity. An important paralog of this gene is DCAF8.	Ligand-dependent coactivator of nuclear receptors. Enhance transcriptional activity of the nuclear receptors NR3C1 and AR. May function as a substrate receptor for CUL4-DDB1 E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex.	same
DCAF8L1	This gene encodes a member of the WD repeat protein family. WD repeats are minimally conserved regions of approximately 40 amino acids typically bracketed by Gly-His and Trp-Asp (GH-WD), which may facilitate the formation of heterotrimeric or multi-protein complexes. Members of this family are involved in a variety of cellular processes, including cell cycle progression, signal transduction, apoptosis, and gene regulation. This gene appears to represent an intronless retrocopy of a related multi-exon gene located on chromosome 1. However, the CDS of this intronless gene remains intact, it is conserved in other primate species, it is known to be transcribed, and it is therefore thought to encode a functional protein. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	DCAF8L1 (DDB1 And CUL4 Associated Factor 8-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is DCAF8.	empty	same
DBT	The branched-chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase complex (BCKD) is an inner-mitochondrial enzyme complex involved in the breakdown of the branched-chain amino acids isoleucine, leucine, and valine. The BCKD complex is thought to be composed of a core of 24 transacylase (E2) subunits, and associated decarboxylase (E1), dehydrogenase (E3), and regulatory subunits. This gene encodes the transacylase (E2) subunit. Mutations in this gene result in maple syrup urine disease, type 2. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described, but their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DBT (Dihydrolipoamide Branched Chain Transacylase E2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DBT include maple syrup urine disease, type ii and classic maple syrup urine disease. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include cofactor binding and dihydrolipoyllysine-residue (2-methylpropanoyl)transferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DLAT.	The branched-chain alpha-keto dehydrogenase complex catalyzes the overall conversion of alpha-keto acids to acyl-CoA and CO(2). It contains multiple copies of three enzymatic components: branched-chain alpha-keto acid decarboxylase (E1), lipoamide acyltransferase (E2) and lipoamide dehydrogenase (E3). Within this complex, the catalytic function of this enzyme is to accept, and to transfer to coenzyme A, acyl groups that are generated by the branched-chain alpha-keto acid decarboxylase component	same
DCAF8	This gene encodes a WD repeat-containing protein that interacts with the Cul4-Ddb1 E3 ligase macromolecular complex. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009]	DCAF8 (DDB1 And CUL4 Associated Factor 8) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DCAF8 include giant axonal neuropathy 2, autosomal dominant and autosomal dominant charcot-marie-tooth disease type 2 with giant axons. An important paralog of this gene is DCAF8L1.	May function as a substrate receptor for CUL4-DDB1 E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex.	same
DCAF12L1	This gene encodes a member of the WD repeat protein family. WD repeats are minimally conserved regions of approximately 40 amino acids typically bracketed by gly-his and trp-asp (GH-WD), which may facilitate formation of heterotrimeric or multiprotein complexes. Members of this family are involved in a variety of cellular processes, including cell cycle progression, signal transduction, apoptosis, and gene regulation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DCAF12L1 (DDB1 And CUL4 Associated Factor 12-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is DCAF12.	empty	same
DCAKD	empty	DCAKD (Dephospho-CoA Kinase Domain Containing) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Integrated Breast Cancer Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include dephospho-CoA kinase activity.	empty	same
DCDC1	This gene encodes a member of the doublecortin family. The protein encoded by this gene is a hydrophilic, intracellular protein. It contains a single doublecortin domain and is unable to bind microtubules and to regulate microtubule polymerization. This gene is mainly expressed in adult testis. It does not have a mouse homolog. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]	DCDC1 (Doublecortin Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
DCAF16	empty	DCAF16 (DDB1 And CUL4 Associated Factor 16) is a Protein Coding gene.	May function as a substrate receptor for CUL4-DDB1 E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex.	same
DCDC2B	This gene encodes a member of the doublecortin family. The protein encoded by this gene contains two doublecortin domains. The doublecortin domain has been demonstrated to bind tubulin and enhance microtubule polymerization. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]	DCDC2B (Doublecortin Domain Containing 2B) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is DCDC2C.	empty	same
DCAF15	empty	DCAF15 (DDB1 And CUL4 Associated Factor 15) is a Protein Coding gene.	May be involved in ubiquitination and degradation through a DBB1-CUL4 E3 protein-ubiquitin ligase.	same
DCBLD1	empty	DCBLD1 (Discoidin, CUB And LCCL Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is NRP2.	empty	same
DCBLD2	empty	DCBLD2 (Discoidin, CUB And LCCL Domain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Neuroscience. An important paralog of this gene is NRP2.	empty	same
DCDC2	This gene encodes a doublecortin domain-containing family member. The doublecortin domain has been demonstrated to bind tubulin and enhance microtubule polymerization. This family member is thought to function in neuronal migration where it may affect the signaling of primary cilia. Mutations in this gene have been associated with reading disability (RD) type 2, also referred to as developmental dyslexia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2013]	DCDC2 (Doublecortin Domain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DCDC2 include nephronophthisis 19 and writing disorder. An important paralog of this gene is DCDC2B.	May be involved in neuronal migration during development of the cerebral neocortex.	same
DCAF7	This gene encodes a protein with multiple WD40 repeats which facilitate protein-protein interactions and thereby enable the assembly of multiprotein complexes. This protein has been shown to function as a scaffold protein for protein complexes involved in kinase signaling. This highly conserved gene is present in eukaryotic plants, fungi, and animals. The ortholog of this gene was first identified in plants as a key regulator of anthocyanin biosynthesis and flower pigmentation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2014]	DCAF7 (DDB1 And CUL4 Associated Factor 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are TNF-alpha/NF-kB Signaling Pathway.	Involved in craniofacial development. Acts upstream of the EDN1 pathway and is required for formation of the upper jaw equivalent, the palatoquadrate. The activity required for EDN1 pathway function differs between the first and second arches (By similarity). Associates with DIAPH1 and controls GLI1 transcriptional activity. Could be involved in normal and disease skin development. May function as a substrate receptor for CUL4-DDB1 E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex.	same
DCHS2	empty	DCHS2 (Dachsous Cadherin-Related 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is FAT4.	Calcium-dependent cell-adhesion protein.	same
DCHS1	This gene is a member of the cadherin superfamily whose members encode calcium-dependent cell-cell adhesion molecules. The encoded protein has a signal peptide, 27 cadherin repeat domains and a unique cytoplasmic region. This particular cadherin family member is expressed in fibroblasts but not in melanocytes or keratinocytes. The cell-cell adhesion of fibroblasts is thought to be necessary for wound healing. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DCHS1 (Dachsous Cadherin-Related 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DCHS1 include van maldergem syndrome 1 and van maldergem syndrome. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding. An important paralog of this gene is FAT4.	Calcium-dependent cell-adhesion protein. Mediates functions in neuroprogenitor cell proliferation and differentiation	same
DCI	This gene encodes a member of the hydratase/isomerase superfamily. The protein encoded is a key mitochondrial enzyme involved in beta-oxidation of unsaturated fatty acids. It catalyzes the transformation of 3-cis and 3-trans-enoyl-CoA esters arising during the stepwise degradation of cis-, mono-, and polyunsaturated fatty acids to the 2-trans-enoyl-CoA intermediates. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	ECI1 (Enoyl-CoA Delta Isomerase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include dodecenoyl-CoA delta-isomerase activity and intramolecular oxidoreductase activity.	Able to isomerize both 3-cis and 3-trans double bonds into the 2-trans form in a range of enoyl-CoA species	diff
DCK	Deoxycytidine kinase (DCK) is required for the phosphorylation of several deoxyribonucleosides and their nucleoside analogs. Deficiency of DCK is associated with resistance to antiviral and anticancer chemotherapeutic agents. Conversely, increased deoxycytidine kinase activity is associated with increased activation of these compounds to cytotoxic nucleoside triphosphate derivatives. DCK is clinically important because of its relationship to drug resistance and sensitivity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DCK (Deoxycytidine Kinase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DCK include neurofibrosarcoma and pancreatic cancer. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and phosphotransferase activity, alcohol group as acceptor. An important paralog of this gene is TK2.	Required for the phosphorylation of the deoxyribonucleosides deoxycytidine (dC), deoxyguanosine (dG) and deoxyadenosine (dA). Has broad substrate specificity, and does not display selectivity based on the chirality of the substrate. It is also an essential enzyme for the phosphorylation of numerous nucleoside analogs widely employed as antiviral and chemotherapeutic agents.	same
DCLK1	This gene encodes a member of the protein kinase superfamily and the doublecortin family. The protein encoded by this gene contains two N-terminal doublecortin domains, which bind microtubules and regulate microtubule polymerization, a C-terminal serine/threonine protein kinase domain, which shows substantial homology to Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase, and a serine/proline-rich domain in between the doublecortin and the protein kinase domains, which mediates multiple protein-protein interactions. The microtubule-polymerizing activity of the encoded protein is independent of its protein kinase activity. The encoded protein is involved in several different cellular processes, including neuronal migration, retrograde transport, neuronal apoptosis and neurogenesis. This gene is up-regulated by brain-derived neurotrophic factor and associated with memory and general cognitive abilities. Multiple transcript variants generated by two alternative promoter usage and alternative splicing have been reported, but the full-length nature and biological validity of some variants have not been defined. These variants encode different isoforms, which are differentially expressed and have different kinase activities.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]	DCLK1 (Doublecortin-Like Kinase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity and receptor signaling protein activity. An important paralog of this gene is DCX.	Probable kinase that may be involved in a calcium-signaling pathway controlling neuronal migration in the developing brain. May also participate in functions of the mature nervous system	same
DCLRE1A	This gene encodes a conserved protein that is involved in the repair of DNA interstrand cross-links. DNA cross-links suppress transcription, replication, and DNA segregation. The encoded protein is a regulator of the mitotic cell cycle checkpoint. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2012]	DCLRE1A (DNA Cross-Link Repair 1A) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Chks in Checkpoint Regulation. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrolase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DCLRE1B.	May be required for DNA interstrand cross-link repair. Also required for checkpoint mediated cell cycle arrest in early prophase in response to mitotic spindle poisons.	same
DCLRE1B	DNA interstrand cross-links prevent strand separation, thereby physically blocking transcription, replication, and segregation of DNA. DCLRE1B is one of several evolutionarily conserved genes involved in repair of interstrand cross-links (Dronkert et al., 2000 [PubMed 10848582]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	DCLRE1B (DNA Cross-Link Repair 1B) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include 5-3 exonuclease activity. An important paralog of this gene is DCLRE1A.	5-3 exonuclease that plays a central role in telomere maintenance and protection during S-phase. Participates in the protection of telomeres against non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ)-mediated repair, thereby ensuring that telomeres do not fuse. Plays a key role in telomeric loop (T loop) formation by being recruited by TERF2 at the leading end telomeres and by processing leading-end telomeres immediately after their replication via its exonuclease activity: generates 3 single-stranded overhang at the leading end telomeres avoiding blunt leading-end telomeres that are vulnerable to end-joining reactions and expose the telomere end in a manner that activates the DNA repair pathways. Together with TERF2, required to protect telomeres from replicative damage during replication by controlling the amount of DNA topoisomerase (TOP1, TOP2A and TOP2B) needed for telomere replication during fork passage and prevent aberrant telomere topology. Also involved in response to DNA damage: plays a role in response to DNA interstrand cross-links (ICLs) by facilitating double-strand break formation. In case of spindle stress, involved in prophase checkpoint.	same
DCN	The protein encoded by this gene is a small cellular or pericellular matrix proteoglycan that is closely related in structure to biglycan protein. The encoded protein and biglycan are thought to be the result of a gene duplication. This protein is a component of connective tissue, binds to type I collagen fibrils, and plays a role in matrix assembly. It contains one attached glycosaminoglycan chain. This protein is capable of suppressing the growth of various tumor cell lines. There are multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants known for this gene. This gene is a candidate gene for Marfan syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DCN (Decorin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DCN include corneal dystrophy, congenital stromal and burn scar. Among its related pathways are Proteoglycans in cancer and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include protein N-terminus binding and glycosaminoglycan binding. An important paralog of this gene is ECM2.	May affect the rate of fibrils formation	same
DCP1A	Decapping is a key step in general and regulated mRNA decay. The protein encoded by this gene is a decapping enzyme. This protein and another decapping enzyme form a decapping complex, which interacts with the nonsense-mediated decay factor hUpf1 and may be recruited to mRNAs containing premature termination codons. This protein also participates in the TGF-beta signaling pathway. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2014]	DCP1A (Decapping MRNA 1A) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and Regulation of nuclear SMAD2/3 signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and hydrolase activity.	Necessary for the degradation of mRNAs, both in normal mRNA turnover and in nonsense-mediated mRNA decay. Removes the 7-methyl guanine cap structure from mRNA molecules, yielding a 5-phosphorylated mRNA fragment and 7m-GDP. Contributes to the transactivation of target genes after stimulation by TGFB1.	same
DCPS	empty	DCPS (Decapping Enzyme, Scavenger) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and Deadenylation-dependent mRNA decay. GO annotations related to this gene include m7G(5)pppN diphosphatase activity and RNA 7-methylguanosine cap binding.	Decapping scavenger enzyme that catalyzes the cleavage of a residual cap structure following the degradation of mRNAs by the 3->5 exosome-mediated mRNA decay pathway. Hydrolyzes cap analog structures like 7-methylguanosine nucleoside triphosphate (m7GpppG) with up to 10 nucleotide substrates (small capped oligoribonucleotides) and specifically releases 5-phosphorylated RNA fragments and 7-methylguanosine monophosphate (m7GMP). Cleaves cap analog structures like tri-methyl guanosine nucleoside triphosphate (m3(2,2,7)GpppG) with very poor efficiency. Does not hydrolyze unmethylated cap analog (GpppG) and shows no decapping activity on intact m7GpppG-capped mRNA molecules longer than 25 nucleotides. Does not hydrolyze 7-methylguanosine diphosphate (m7GDP) to m7GMP (PubMed:22985415). May also play a role in the 5->3 mRNA decay pathway; m7GDP, the downstream product released by the 5->3 mRNA mediated decapping activity, may be also converted by DCPS to m7GMP (PubMed:14523240). Binds to m7GpppG and strongly to m7GDP. Plays a role in first intron splicing of pre-mRNAs. Inhibits activation-induced cell death.	same
DCC	This gene encodes a netrin 1 receptor. The transmembrane protein is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily of cell adhesion molecules, and mediates axon guidance of neuronal growth cones towards sources of netrin 1 ligand. The cytoplasmic tail interacts with the tyrosine kinases Src and focal adhesion kinase (FAK, also known as PTK2) to mediate axon attraction. The protein partially localizes to lipid rafts, and induces apoptosis in the absence of ligand. The protein functions as a tumor suppressor, and is frequently mutated or downregulated in colorectal cancer and esophageal carcinoma. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]	DCC (DCC Netrin 1 Receptor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DCC include colorectal cancer and mirror movements 1. Among its related pathways are Pathways in cancer and L1CAM interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and transmembrane signaling receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is PRTG.	Receptor for netrin required for axon guidance. Mediates axon attraction of neuronal growth cones in the developing nervous system upon ligand binding. Its association with UNC5 proteins may trigger signaling for axon repulsion. It also acts as a dependence receptor required for apoptosis induction when not associated with netrin ligand. Implicated as a tumor suppressor gene.	same
DCD	This antimicrobial gene encodes a secreted protein that is subsequently processed into mature peptides of distinct biological activities. The C-terminal peptide is constitutively expressed in sweat and has antibacterial and antifungal activities. The N-terminal peptide, also known as diffusible survival evasion peptide, promotes neural cell survival under conditions of severe oxidative stress. A glycosylated form of the N-terminal peptide may be associated with cachexia (muscle wasting) in cancer patients. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014]	DCD (Dermcidin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DCD include root caries and burns. GO annotations related to this gene include peptidase activity.	DCD-1 displays antimicrobial activity thereby limiting skin infection by potential pathogens in the first few hours after bacterial colonization. Highly effective against E.coli, E.faecalis, S.aureus and C.albicans. Optimal pH and salt concentration resemble the conditions in sweat. Also exhibits proteolytic activity	same
DCTD	The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the deamination of dCMP to dUMP, the nucleotide substrate for thymidylate synthase. The encoded protein is allosterically activated by dCTP and inhibited by dTTP, and is found as a homohexamer. This protein uses zinc as a cofactor for its activity. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DCTD (DCMP Deaminase) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism.	Supplies the nucleotide substrate for thymidylate synthetase	same
DCLK3	empty	DCLK3 (Doublecortin-Like Kinase 3) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DCX.	empty	same
DCLRE1C	This gene encodes a nuclear protein that is involved in V(D)J recombination and DNA repair. The encoded protein has single-strand-specific 5'-3' exonuclease activity; it also exhibits endonuclease activity on 5' and 3' overhangs and hairpins. The protein also functions in the regulation of the cell cycle in response to DNA damage. Mutations in this gene can cause Athabascan-type severe combined immunodeficiency (SCIDA) and Omenn syndrome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2014]	DCLRE1C (DNA Cross-Link Repair 1C) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DCLRE1C include severe combined immunodeficiency, athabascan type and severe immunodeficiency, autosomal recessive, t-cell negative, b-cell negative, nk cell-positive. Among its related pathways are Non-homologous end-joining and Primary immunodeficiency. GO annotations related to this gene include 5-3 exonuclease activity and single-stranded DNA endodeoxyribonuclease activity. An important paralog of this gene is DCLRE1B.	Required for V(D)J recombination, the process by which exons encoding the antigen-binding domains of immunoglobulins and T-cell receptor proteins are assembled from individual V, (D), and J gene segments. V(D)J recombination is initiated by the lymphoid specific RAG endonuclease complex, which generates site specific DNA double strand breaks (DSBs). These DSBs present two types of DNA end structures: hairpin sealed coding ends and phosphorylated blunt signal ends. These ends are independently repaired by the non homologous end joining (NHEJ) pathway to form coding and signal joints respectively. This protein exhibits single-strand specific 5-3 exonuclease activity in isolation and acquires endonucleolytic activity on 5 and 3 hairpins and overhangs when in a complex with PRKDC. The latter activity is required specifically for the resolution of closed hairpins prior to the formation of the coding joint. May also be required for the repair of complex DSBs induced by ionizing radiation, which require substantial end-processing prior to religation by NHEJ.	same
DCP1B	DCP1B is a core component of the mRNA decapping complex, a key factor in the regulation of mRNA decay (Lykke-Andersen, 2002 [PubMed 12417715]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	DCP1B (Decapping MRNA 1B) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and Deadenylation-dependent mRNA decay. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrolase activity.	May play a role in the degradation of mRNAs, both in normal mRNA turnover and in nonsense-mediated mRNA decay. May remove the 7-methyl guanine cap structure from mRNA molecules, yielding a 5-phosphorylated mRNA fragment and 7m-GDP (By similarity).	same
DCTN2	This gene encodes a 50-kD subunit of dynactin, a macromolecular complex consisting of 10-11 subunits ranging in size from 22 to 150 kD. Dynactin binds to both microtubules and cytoplasmic dynein. It is involved in a diverse array of cellular functions, including ER-to-Golgi transport, the centripetal movement of lysosomes and endosomes, spindle formation, chromosome movement, nuclear positioning, and axonogenesis. This subunit is present in 4-5 copies per dynactin molecule. It contains three short alpha-helical coiled-coil domains that may mediate association with self or other dynactin subunits. It may interact directly with the largest subunit (p150) of dynactin and may affix p150 in place. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]	DCTN2 (Dynactin 2 (P50)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DCTN2 include synucleinopathy. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include motor activity.	Modulates cytoplasmic dynein binding to an organelle, and plays a role in prometaphase chromosome alignment and spindle organization during mitosis. Involved in anchoring microtubules to centrosomes. May play a role in synapse formation during brain development	same
DCTPP1	empty	DCTPP1 (DCTP Pyrophosphatase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Purine metabolism (KEGG). GO annotations related to this gene include magnesium ion binding and pyrimidine deoxyribonucleotide binding.	Hydrolyzes deoxynucleoside triphosphates (dNTPs) to the corresponding nucleoside monophosphates. Has a strong preference for modified dCTP. Activity is highest with 5-iodo-dCTP, followed by 5-bromo-dCTP, unmodified dCTP, 5-methyl-dCTP and 5-chloro-dCTP. Hydrolyzes 2-chloro-dATP and 2-hydroxy-dATP with lower efficiency, and has even lower activity with unmodified dATP, dTTP and dUTP (in vitro). Does not hydrolyze ATP, UTP, ITP, GTP, dADP, dCDP or dGTP. May protect DNA or RNA against the incorporation of non-canonical nucleotide triphosphates. May protect cells against inappropriate methylation of CpG islands by DNA methyltransferases (By similarity).	same
DCST1	This gene encodes a protein with a domain similar to one found in dendritic cells (PMID:11169400) which play a key role in antigen processing and display for immune responses. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]	DCST1 (DC-STAMP Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is DCST2.	empty	same
DCTN6	The protein encoded by this gene contains an RGD (Arg-Gly-Asp) motif in the N-terminal region, which confers adhesive properties to macromolecular proteins like fibronectin. It shares a high degree of sequence similarity with the mouse homolog, which has been suggested to play a role in mitochondrial biogenesis. The exact biological function of this gene is not known. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DCTN6 (Dynactin 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Vasopressin-regulated water reabsorption. GO annotations related to this gene include dynein binding.	empty	same
DCLK2	This gene encodes a member of the protein kinase superfamily and the doublecortin family. The protein encoded by this gene contains two N-terminal doublecortin domains, which bind microtubules and regulate microtubule polymerization, a C-terminal serine/threonine protein kinase domain, which shows substantial homology to Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase, and a serine/proline-rich domain in between the doublecortin and the protein kinase domains, which mediates multiple protein-protein interactions. The microtubule-polymerizing activity of the encoded protein is independent of its protein kinase activity. Mouse studies show that the DCX gene, another family member, and this gene share function in the establishment of hippocampal organization and that their absence results in a severe epileptic phenotype and lethality, as described in human patients with lissencephaly. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]	DCLK2 (Doublecortin-Like Kinase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DCX.	Protein kinase with a significantly reduced C(a2+)/CAM affinity and dependence compared to other members of the CaMK family. May play a role in the down-regulation of CRE-dependent gene activation probably by phosphorylation of the CREB coactivator CRTC2/TORC2 and the resulting retention of TORC2 in the cytoplasm (By similarity).	same
DCUN1D2	empty	DCUN1D2 (DCN1, Defective In Cullin Neddylation 1, Domain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is DCUN1D1.	Potently stimulates the neddylation of cullin components of SCF-type E3 ubiquitin ligase complexes from the NEDD8-conjugating E2 enzyme UBC12. Neddylation of cullins play an essential role in the regulation of SCF-type complexes activity.	same
DCTN4	empty	DCTN4 (Dynactin 4 (P62)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DCTN4 include cystic fibrosis. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Vasopressin-regulated water reabsorption. GO annotations related to this gene include protein N-terminus binding.	Could have a dual role in dynein targeting and in ACTR1A/Arp1 subunit of dynactin pointed-end capping. Could be involved in ACTR1A pointed-end binding and in additional roles in linking dynein and dynactin to the cortical cytoskeleton	same
DCUN1D1	empty	DCUN1D1 (DCN1, Defective In Cullin Neddylation 1, Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is DCUN1D5.	Part of an E3 ubiquitin ligase complex for neddylation. Promotes neddylation of cullin components of E3 cullin-RING ubiquitin ligase complexes. Acts by binding to cullin-RBX1 complexes in the cytoplasm and promoting their nuclear translocation, enhancing recruitment of E2-NEDD8 (UBE2M-NEDD8) thioester to the complex, and optimizing the orientation of proteins in the complex to allow efficient transfer of NEDD8 from the E2 to the cullin substrates (PubMed:25349211). Involved in the release of inhibitory effets of CAND1 on cullin-RING ligase E3 complex assembly and activity. Acts also as an oncogene facilitating malignant transformation and carcinogenic progression (By similarity).	same
DCUN1D3	empty	DCUN1D3 (DCN1, Defective In Cullin Neddylation 1, Domain Containing 3) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is DCUN1D1.	Antagonizes DCUN1D1-mediated CUL1 neddylation by sequestering CUL1 at the cell membrane (PubMed:25349211). When overexpressed in transformed cells, may promote mesenchymal to epithelial-like changes and inhibit colony formation in soft agar (PubMed:25349211).	same
DCUN1D5	empty	DCUN1D5 (DCN1, Defective In Cullin Neddylation 1, Domain Containing 5) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is DCUN1D1.	empty	same
DCP2	The protein encoded by this gene is a key component of an mRNA-decapping complex required for degradation of mRNAs, both in normal mRNA turnover, and in nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD). It removes the 7-methyl guanine cap structure from mRNA, prior to its degradation from the 5' end. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]	DCP2 (Decapping MRNA 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Unfolded Protein Response. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and m7G(5)pppN diphosphatase activity.	Decapping metalloenzyme that catalyzes the cleavage of the cap structure on mRNAs. Removes the 7-methyl guanine cap structure from mRNA molecules, yielding a 5-phosphorylated mRNA fragment and 7m-GDP. Necessary for the degradation of mRNAs, both in normal mRNA turnover and in nonsense-mediated mRNA decay. Plays a role in replication-dependent histone mRNA degradation. Has higher activity towards mRNAs that lack a poly(A) tail. Has no activity towards a cap structure lacking an RNA moiety.	same
DCUN1D4	empty	DCUN1D4 (DCN1, Defective In Cullin Neddylation 1, Domain Containing 4) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is DCUN1D1.	empty	same
DDAH1	This gene belongs to the dimethylarginine dimethylaminohydrolase (DDAH) gene family. The encoded enzyme plays a role in nitric oxide generation by regulating cellular concentrations of methylarginines, which in turn inhibit nitric oxide synthase activity. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DDAH1 (Dimethylarginine Dimethylaminohydrolase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include amino acid binding and dimethylargininase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DDAH2.	Hydrolyzes N(G),N(G)-dimethyl-L-arginine (ADMA) and N(G)-monomethyl-L-arginine (MMA) which act as inhibitors of NOS. Has therefore a role in the regulation of nitric oxide generation	same
DCST2	empty	DCST2 (DC-STAMP Domain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is DCST1.	empty	same
DCXR	The protein encoded by this gene acts as a homotetramer to catalyze diacetyl reductase and L-xylulose reductase reactions. The encoded protein may play a role in the uronate cycle of glucose metabolism and in the cellular osmoregulation in the proximal renal tubules. Defects in this gene are a cause of pentosuria. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]	DCXR (Dicarbonyl/L-Xylulose Reductase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DCXR include pentosuria and dacryocystocele. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Glucuronidation. GO annotations related to this gene include oxidoreductase activity, acting on NAD(P)H, quinone or similar compound as acceptor and L-xylulose reductase (NADP+) activity. An important paralog of this gene is DECR2.	Catalyzes the NADPH-dependent reduction of several pentoses, tetroses, trioses, alpha-dicarbonyl compounds and L-xylulose. Participates in the uronate cycle of glucose metabolism. May play a role in the water absorption and cellular osmoregulation in the proximal renal tubules by producing xylitol, an osmolyte, thereby preventing osmolytic stress from occurring in the renal tubules	same
DCTN1	This gene encodes the largest subunit of dynactin, a macromolecular complex consisting of 10 subunits ranging in size from 22 to 150 kD. Dynactin binds to both microtubules and cytoplasmic dynein. Dynactin is involved in a diverse array of cellular functions, including ER-to-Golgi transport, the centripetal movement of lysosomes and endosomes, spindle formation, chromosome movement, nuclear positioning, and axonogenesis. This subunit interacts with dynein intermediate chain by its domains directly binding to dynein and binds to microtubules via a highly conserved glycine-rich cytoskeleton-associated protein (CAP-Gly) domain in its N-terminus. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. Mutations in this gene cause distal hereditary motor neuronopathy type VIIB (HMN7B) which is also known as distal spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy (dSBMA). [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]	DCTN1 (Dynactin 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DCTN1 include perry syndrome and neuropathy, distal hereditary motor, type viib. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include motor activity. An important paralog of this gene is CLIP4.	Required for the cytoplasmic dynein-driven retrograde movement of vesicles and organelles along microtubules. Dynein-dynactin interaction is a key component of the mechanism of axonal transport of vesicles and organelles	same
DDB1	The protein encoded by this gene is the large subunit (p127) of the heterodimeric DNA damage-binding (DDB) complex while another protein (p48) forms the small subunit. This protein complex functions in nucleotide-excision repair and binds to DNA following UV damage. Defective activity of this complex causes the repair defect in patients with xeroderma pigmentosum complementation group E (XPE) - an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by photosensitivity and early onset of carcinomas. However, it remains for mutation analysis to demonstrate whether the defect in XPE patients is in this gene or the gene encoding the small subunit. In addition, Best vitelliform mascular dystrophy is mapped to the same region as this gene on 11q, but no sequence alternations of this gene are demonstrated in Best disease patients. The protein encoded by this gene also functions as an adaptor molecule for the cullin 4 (CUL4) ubiquitin E3 ligase complex by facilitating the binding of substrates to this complex and the ubiquitination of proteins. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012]	DDB1 (Damage-Specific DNA Binding Protein 1, 127kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DDB1 include vitelliform macular dystrophy. Among its related pathways are Protein Stability and Cell Cycle / Checkpoint Control. GO annotations related to this gene include damaged DNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is SF3B3.	Required for DNA repair. Binds to DDB2 to form the UV-damaged DNA-binding protein complex (the UV-DDB complex). The UV-DDB complex may recognize UV-induced DNA damage and recruit proteins of the nucleotide excision repair pathway (the NER pathway) to initiate DNA repair. The UV-DDB complex preferentially binds to cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers (CPD), 6-4 photoproducts (6-4 PP), apurinic sites and short mismatches. Also appears to function as a component of numerous distinct DCX (DDB1-CUL4-X-box) E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complexes which mediate the ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of target proteins. The functional specificity of the DCX E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex is determined by the variable substrate recognition component recruited by DDB1. DCX(DDB2) (also known as DDB1-CUL4-ROC1, CUL4-DDB-ROC1 and CUL4-DDB-RBX1) may ubiquitinate histone H2A, histone H3 and histone H4 at sites of UV-induced DNA damage. The ubiquitination of histones may facilitate their removal from the nucleosome and promote subsequent DNA repair. DCX(DDB2) also ubiquitinates XPC, which may enhance DNA-binding by XPC and promote NER. DCX(DTL) plays a role in PCNA-dependent polyubiquitination of CDT1 and MDM2-dependent ubiquitination of TP53 in response to radiation-induced DNA damage and during DNA replication. DCX(ERCC8) (the CSA complex) plays a role in transcription-coupled repair (TCR). May also play a role in ubiquitination of CDKN1B/p27kip when associated with CUL4 and SKP2.	same
DDA1	empty	DDA1 (DET1 And DDB1 Associated 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	May be involved in ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of target proteins. Component of the DDD-E2 complexes which may provide a platform for interaction with CUL4A and WD repeat proteins.	same
DCTN3	This gene encodes the smallest subunit of dynactin, a macromolecular complex consisting of 10 subunits ranging in size from 22 to 150 kD. Dynactin binds to both microtubules and cytoplasmic dynein. It is involved in a diverse array of cellular functions, including ER-to-Golgi transport, the centripetal movement of lysosomes and endosomes, spindle formation, cytokinesis, chromosome movement, nuclear positioning, and axonogenesis. This subunit, like most other dynactin subunits, exists only as a part of the dynactin complex. It is primarily an alpha-helical protein with very little coiled coil, and binds directly to the largest subunit (p150) of dynactin. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]	DCTN3 (Dynactin 3 (P22)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include structural molecule activity.	Together with dynein may be involved in spindle assembly and cytokinesis.	same
DDAH2	This gene encodes a dimethylarginine dimethylaminohydrolase. The encoded enzyme functions in nitric oxide generation by regulating the cellular concentrations of methylarginines, which in turn inhibit nitric oxide synthase activity. The protein may be localized to the mitochondria. Alternative splicing resulting in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2014]	DDAH2 (Dimethylarginine Dimethylaminohydrolase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include amino acid binding and dimethylargininase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DDAH1.	Hydrolyzes N(G),N(G)-dimethyl-L-arginine (ADMA) and N(G)-monomethyl-L-arginine (MMA) which act as inhibitors of NOS. Has therefore a role in the regulation of nitric oxide generation.	same
DCTN5	This gene encodes a subunit of dynactin, a component of the cytoplasmic dynein motor machinery involved in minus-end-directed transport. The encoded protein is a component of the pointed-end subcomplex and is thought to bind membranous cargo. A pseudogene of this gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 1. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011]	DCTN5 (Dynactin 5 (P25)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Alzheimers Disease Pathway.	empty	same
DDI1	empty	DDI1 (DNA-Damage Inducible 1 Homolog 1 (S. Cerevisiae)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include aspartic-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DDI2.	empty	same
DDB2	This gene encodes a protein that is necessary for the repair of ultraviolet light-damaged DNA. This protein is the smaller subunit of a heterodimeric protein complex that participates in nucleotide excision repair, and this complex mediates the ubiquitylation of histones H3 and H4, which facilitates the cellular response to DNA damage. This subunit appears to be required for DNA binding. Mutations in this gene cause xeroderma pigmentosum complementation group E, a recessive disease that is characterized by an increased sensitivity to UV light and a high predisposition for skin cancer development, in some cases accompanied by neurological abnormalities. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]	DDB2 (Damage-Specific DNA Binding Protein 2, 48kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DDB2 include xeroderma pigmentosum, group e, ddb-negative subtype and ddb2-related xeroderma pigmentosum. Among its related pathways are Protein Stability and Direct p53 effectors. GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin-protein transferase activity and damaged DNA binding.	Required for DNA repair. Binds to DDB1 to form the UV-damaged DNA-binding protein complex (the UV-DDB complex). The UV-DDB complex may recognize UV-induced DNA damage and recruit proteins of the nucleotide excision repair pathway (the NER pathway) to initiate DNA repair. The UV-DDB complex preferentially binds to cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers (CPD), 6-4 photoproducts (6-4 PP), apurinic sites and short mismatches. Also appears to function as the substrate recognition module for the DCX (DDB1-CUL4-X-box) E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex DDB1-CUL4-ROC1 (also known as CUL4-DDB-ROC1 and CUL4-DDB-RBX1). The DDB1-CUL4-ROC1 complex may ubiquitinate histone H2A, histone H3 and histone H4 at sites of UV-induced DNA damage. The ubiquitination of histones may facilitate their removal from the nucleosome and promote subsequent DNA repair. The DDB1-CUL4-ROC1 complex also ubiquitinates XPC, which may enhance DNA-binding by XPC and promote NER. Isoform D1 and isoform D2 inhibit UV-damaged DNA repair.	same
DDI2	empty	DDI2 (DNA-Damage Inducible 1 Homolog 2 (S. Cerevisiae)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include aspartic-type endopeptidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DDI1.	empty	same
DDC	The encoded protein catalyzes the decarboxylation of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) to dopamine, L-5-hydroxytryptophan to serotonin and L-tryptophan to tryptamine. Defects in this gene are the cause of aromatic L-amino-acid decarboxylase deficiency (AADCD). AADCD deficiency is an inborn error in neurotransmitter metabolism that leads to combined serotonin and catecholamine deficiency. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011]	DDC (Dopa Decarboxylase (Aromatic L-Amino Acid Decarboxylase)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DDC include aromatic l-amino acid decarboxylase deficiency and aromatic amino acid decarboxylase deficiency. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include protein domain specific binding and amino acid binding. An important paralog of this gene is GAD1.	Catalyzes the decarboxylation of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) to dopamine, L-5-hydroxytryptophan to serotonin and L-tryptophan to tryptamine	same
DDIT4L	empty	DDIT4L (DNA-Damage-Inducible Transcript 4-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DDIT4L include mature teratoma. Among its related pathways are Insulin receptor signalling cascade. An important paralog of this gene is DDIT4.	Inhibits cell growth by regulating the TOR signaling pathway upstream of the TSC1-TSC2 complex and downstream of AKT1.	same
DDHD2	This gene encodes a phospholipase enzyme containing sterile-alpha-motif (SAM), WWE, and DDHD domains. This protein participates in membrane trafficking between the endoplastic reticulum and the Golgi body. Mutations in this gene can cause autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia 54. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2013]	DDHD2 (DDHD Domain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DDHD2 include spastic paraplegia 54, autosomal recessive. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrolase activity. An important paralog of this gene is SEC23IP.	Phospholipase that hydrolyzes preferentially phosphatidic acid, including 1,2-dioleoyl-sn-phosphatidic acid, and phosphatidylethanolamine. Specifically binds to phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate (PI(3)P), phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate (PI(4)P), phosphatidylinositol 5-phosphate (PI(5)P) and possibly phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PI(4,5)P2). May be involved in the maintenance of the endoplasmic reticulum and/or Golgi structures. May regulate the transport between Golgi apparatus and plasma membrane.	same
DDIT4	empty	DDIT4 (DNA-Damage-Inducible Transcript 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DDIT4 include renal cell carcinoma. Among its related pathways are PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and p70S6K Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include 14-3-3 protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is DDIT4L.	Regulates cell growth, proliferation and survival via inhibition of the activity of the mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1). Inhibition of mTORC1 is mediated by a pathway that involves DDIT4/REDD1, AKT1, the TSC1-TSC2 complex and the GTPase RHEB. Plays an important role in responses to cellular energy levels and cellular stress, including responses to hypoxia and DNA damage. Regulates p53/TP53-mediated apoptosis in response to DNA damage via its effect on mTORC1 activity. Its role in the response to hypoxia depends on the cell type; it mediates mTORC1 inhibition in fibroblasts and thymocytes, but not in hepatocytes (By similarity). Required for mTORC1-mediated defense against viral protein synthesis and virus replication (By similarity). Inhibits neuronal differentiation and neurite outgrowth mediated by NGF via its effect on mTORC1 activity. Required for normal neuron migration during embryonic brain development. Plays a role in neuronal cell death.	same
DDHD1	empty	DDHD1 (DDHD Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DDHD1 include spastic paraplegia 28, autosomal recessive. GO annotations related to this gene include hydrolase activity. An important paralog of this gene is SEC23IP.	Phospholipase that hydrolyzes phosphatidic acid, including 1,2-dioleoyl-sn-phosphatidic acid. The different isoforms may change the substrate specificity.	same
DCT	empty	DCT (Dopachrome Tautomerase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DCT include amelanotic melanoma and degenerative disc disease. Among its related pathways are Neural Crest Differentiation and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include oxidoreductase activity and dopachrome isomerase activity. An important paralog of this gene is TYRP1.	Involved in regulating eumelanin and phaeomelanin levels	same
DDN	empty	DDN (Dendrin) is a Protein Coding gene.	Promotes apoptosis of kidney glomerular podocytes. Podocytes are highly specialized cells essential to the ultrafiltration of blood, resulting in the extraction of urine and the retention of protein (By similarity).	same
DDO	The protein encoded by this gene is a peroxisomal flavoprotein that catalyzes the oxidative deamination of D-aspartate and N-methyl D-aspartate. Flavin adenine dinucleotide or 6-hydroxyflavin adenine dinucleotide can serve as the cofactor in this reaction. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DDO (D-Aspartate Oxidase) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Peroxisome and Alanine, aspartate and glutamate metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and D-amino-acid oxidase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DAO.	Selectively catalyzes the oxidative deamination of D-aspartate and its N-methylated derivative, N-methyl D-aspartate	same
DDOST	This gene encodes a component of the oligosaccharyltransferase complex which catalyzes the transfer of high-mannose oligosaccharides to asparagine residues on nascent polypeptides in the lumen of the rough endoplasmic reticulum. The protein complex co-purifies with ribosomes. The product of this gene is also implicated in the processing of advanced glycation endproducts (AGEs), which form from non-enzymatic reactions between sugars and proteins or lipids and are associated with aging and hyperglycemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DDOST (Dolichyl-Diphosphooligosaccharide--Protein Glycosyltransferase Subunit (Non-Catalytic)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DDOST include congenital disorder of glycosylation, type ir and hyperglycemia. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein. GO annotations related to this gene include dolichyl-diphosphooligosaccharide-protein glycotransferase activity and oligosaccharyl transferase activity.	Essential subunit of the N-oligosaccharyl transferase (OST) complex which catalyzes the transfer of a high mannose oligosaccharide from a lipid-linked oligosaccharide donor to an asparagine residue within an Asn-X-Ser/Thr consensus motif in nascent polypeptide chains	same
DDR2	Receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) play a key role in the communication of cells with their microenvironment. These molecules are involved in the regulation of cell growth, differentiation, and metabolism. In several cases the biochemical mechanism by which RTKs transduce signals across the membrane has been shown to be ligand induced receptor oligomerization and subsequent intracellular phosphorylation. This autophosphorylation leads to phosphorylation of cytosolic targets as well as association with other molecules, which are involved in pleiotropic effects of signal transduction. RTKs have a tripartite structure with extracellular, transmembrane, and cytoplasmic regions. This gene encodes a member of a novel subclass of RTKs and contains a distinct extracellular region encompassing a factor VIII-like domain. Alternative splicing in the 5' UTR results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DDR2 (Discoidin Domain Receptor Tyrosine Kinase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DDR2 include spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia - short limb - abnormal calcification and spondylometaepiphyseal dysplasia, short limb-hand type. Among its related pathways are GPCR Pathway and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include collagen binding and protein tyrosine kinase collagen receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is ALK.	Tyrosine kinase that functions as cell surface receptor for fibrillar collagen and regulates cell differentiation, remodeling of the extracellular matrix, cell migration and cell proliferation. Required for normal bone development. Regulates osteoblast differentiation and chondrocyte maturation via a signaling pathway that involves MAP kinases and leads to the activation of the transcription factor RUNX2. Regulates remodeling of the extracellular matrix by up-regulation of the collagenases MMP1, MMP2 and MMP13, and thereby facilitates cell migration and tumor cell invasion. Promotes fibroblast migration and proliferation, and thereby contributes to cutaneous wound healing.	same
DDR1	Receptor tyrosine kinases play a key role in the communication of cells with their microenvironment. These kinases are involved in the regulation of cell growth, differentiation and metabolism. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a subfamily of tyrosine kinase receptors with homology to Dictyostelium discoideum protein discoidin I in their extracellular domain, and that are activated by various types of collagen. Expression of this protein is restricted to epithelial cells, particularly in the kidney, lung, gastrointestinal tract, and brain. In addition, it has been shown to be significantly overexpressed in several human tumors. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011]	DDR1 (Discoidin Domain Receptor Tyrosine Kinase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are GPCR Pathway and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include collagen binding and protein tyrosine kinase collagen receptor activity. An important paralog of this gene is ALK.	Tyrosine kinase that functions as cell surface receptor for fibrillar collagen and regulates cell attachment to the extracellular matrix, remodeling of the extracellular matrix, cell migration, differentiation, survival and cell proliferation. Collagen binding triggers a signaling pathway that involves SRC and leads to the activation of MAP kinases. Regulates remodeling of the extracellular matrix by up-regulation of the matrix metalloproteinases MMP2, MMP7 and MMP9, and thereby facilitates cell migration and wound healing. Required for normal blastocyst implantation during pregnancy, for normal mammary gland differentiation and normal lactation. Required for normal ear morphology and normal hearing (By similarity). Promotes smooth muscle cell migration, and thereby contributes to arterial wound healing. Also plays a role in tumor cell invasion. Phosphorylates PTPN11.	same
DCX	This gene encodes a member of the doublecortin family. The protein encoded by this gene is a cytoplasmic protein and contains two doublecortin domains, which bind microtubules. In the developing cortex, cortical neurons must migrate over long distances to reach the site of their final differentiation. The encoded protein appears to direct neuronal migration by regulating the organization and stability of microtubules. In addition, the encoded protein interacts with LIS1, the regulatory gamma subunit of platelet activating factor acetylhydrolase, and this interaction is important to proper microtubule function in the developing cortex. Mutations in this gene cause abnormal migration of neurons during development and disrupt the layering of the cortex, leading to epilepsy, mental retardation, subcortical band heterotopia ("double cortex" syndrome) in females and lissencephaly ("smooth brain" syndrome) in males. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]	DCX (Doublecortin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DCX include lissencephaly, x-linked and dcx-related disorders. Among its related pathways are L1CAM interactions and TGF-Beta Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include protein kinase binding and microtubule binding. An important paralog of this gene is CAMK2D.	Microtubule-associated protein required for initial steps of neuronal dispersion and cortex lamination during cerebral cortex development. May act by competing with the putative neuronal protein kinase DCLK1 in binding to a target protein. May in that way participate in a signaling pathway that is crucial for neuronal interaction before and during migration, possibly as part of a calcium ion-dependent signal transduction pathway. May be part with PAFAH1B1/LIS-1 of overlapping, but distinct, signaling pathways that promote neuronal migration.	same
DDTL	empty	DDTL (D-Dopachrome Tautomerase-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include lyase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DDT.	May have lyase activity.	same
DDT	D-dopachrome tautomerase converts D-dopachrome into 5,6-dihydroxyindole. The DDT gene is related to the migration inhibitory factor (MIF) in terms of sequence, enzyme activity, and gene structure. DDT and MIF are closely linked on chromosome 22. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DDT (D-Dopachrome Tautomerase) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include dopachrome isomerase activity and D-dopachrome decarboxylase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DDTL.	Tautomerization of D-dopachrome with decarboxylation to give 5,6-dihydroxyindole (DHI)	same
DDX11	DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of this family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. This gene encodes a DEAD box protein, which is an enzyme that possesses both ATPase and DNA helicase activities. This gene is a homolog of the yeast CHL1 gene, and may function to maintain chromosome transmission fidelity and genome stability. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DDX11 (DEAD/H (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp/His) Box Helicase 11) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DDX11 include warsaw breakage syndrome and roberts syndrome. Among its related pathways are L1CAM interactions and L1CAM interactions. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and 4 iron, 4 sulfur cluster binding. An important paralog of this gene is BRIP1.	DNA helicase involved in cellular proliferation. Possesses DNA-dependent ATPase and helicase activities. This helicase translocates on single-stranded DNA in the 5 to 3 direction in the presence of ATP and, to a lesser extent, dATP. Its unwinding activity requires a 5-single-stranded region for helicase loading, since flush-ended duplex structures do not support unwinding. The helicase activity is capable of displacing duplex regions up to 100 bp, which can be extended to 500 bp by RPA or the cohesion establishment factor, the Ctf18-RFC (replication factor C) complex activities. Stimulates the flap endonuclease activity of FEN1. Required for normal sister chromatid cohesion. Required for recruitment of bovine papillomavirus type 1 regulatory protein E2 to mitotic chrmosomes and for viral genome maintenance. Required for maintaining the chromosome segregation and is essential for embryonic development and the prevention of aneuploidy. May function during either S, G2, or M phase of the cell cycle. Binds to both single- and double-stranded DNA.	same
DDRGK1	empty	DDRGK1 (DDRGK Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	Protein which interacts with the E3 UFM1-protein ligase UFL1 and one of its substrates TRIP4 and is required for TRIP4 ufmylation. Through TRIP4 ufmylation may regulate nuclear receptors-mediated transcription (PubMed:25219498). May play a role in NF-kappa-B-mediated transcription through regulation of the phosphorylation and the degradation of NFKBIB, the inhibitor of NF-kappa-B (PubMed:23675531). May also play a role in the cellular response to endoplasmic reticulum stress (By similarity).	same
DDX12	empty	DDX12P (DEAD/H (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp/His) Box Polypeptide 12, Pseudogene) is a Pseudogene. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Unfolded Protein Response. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and ATP-dependent DNA helicase activity.	DNA helicase involved in cellular proliferation. Probably required for maintaining the chromosome segregation (By similarity).	diff
DDX18	DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of this family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. This gene encodes a DEAD box protein, and it is activated by Myc protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DDX18 (DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) Box Polypeptide 18) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Validated targets of C-MYC transcriptional activation. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and ATP-dependent RNA helicase activity.	Probable RNA-dependent helicase	same
DDX11L2	empty	DDX11L2 (DEAD/H (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp/His) Box Helicase 11 Like 2) is a Pseudogene.	empty	same
DDX19B	DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of this family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. This gene encodes a DEAD box protein, which exhibits RNA-dependent ATPase and ATP-dependent RNA-unwinding activities. This protein is recruited to the cytoplasmic fibrils of the nuclear pore complex, where it participates in the export of mRNA from the nucleus. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DDX19B (DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) Box Polypeptide 19B) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000260537.	ATP-dependent RNA helicase involved in mRNA export from the nucleus. Rather than unwinding RNA duplexes, DDX19B functions as a remodeler of ribonucleoprotein particles, whereby proteins bound to nuclear mRNA are dissociated and replaced by cytoplasmic mRNA binding proteins	same
DDX21	DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of this family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. This gene encodes a DEAD box protein, which is an antigen recognized by autoimmune antibodies from a patient with watermelon stomach disease. This protein unwinds double-stranded RNA, folds single-stranded RNA, and may play important roles in ribosomal RNA biogenesis, RNA editing, RNA transport, and general transcription. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DDX21 (DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) Box Helicase 21) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DDX21 include stomach disease. GO annotations related to this gene include double-stranded RNA binding and ATP-dependent RNA helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DDX50.	RNA helicase that acts as a sensor of the transcriptional status of both RNA polymerase (Pol) I and II: promotes ribosomal RNA (rRNA) processing and transcription from polymerase II (Pol II) (PubMed:25470060). Binds various RNAs, such as rRNAs, snoRNAs, 7SK and, at lower extent, mRNAs (PubMed:25470060). In the nucleolus, localizes to rDNA locus, where it directly binds rRNAs and snoRNAs, and promotes rRNA transcription, processing and modification. Required for rRNA 2-O-methylation, possibly by promoting the recruitment of late-acting snoRNAs SNORD56 and SNORD58 with pre-ribosomal complexes (PubMed:25470060, PubMed:25477391). In the nucleoplasm, binds 7SK RNA and is recruited to the promoters of Pol II-transcribed genes: acts by facilitating the release of P-TEFb from inhibitory 7SK snRNP in a manner that is dependent on its helicase activity, thereby promoting transcription of its target genes (PubMed:25470060). Functions as cofactor for JUN-activated transcription: required for phosphorylation of JUN at Ser-77 (PubMed:11823437, PubMed:25260534). Can unwind double-stranded RNA (helicase) and can fold or introduce a secondary structure to a single-stranded RNA (foldase) (PubMed:9461305). Involved in rRNA processing (PubMed:14559904, PubMed:18180292).	same
DDX10	DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of this family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. This gene encodes a DEAD box protein, and it may be involved in ribosome assembly. Fusion of this gene and the nucleoporin gene, NUP98, by inversion 11 (p15q22) chromosome translocation is found in the patients with de novo or therapy-related myeloid malignancies. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DDX10 (DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) Box Polypeptide 10) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and RNA helicase activity.	Putative ATP-dependent RNA helicase	same
DDX19A	empty	DDX19A (DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) Box Polypeptide 19A) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and ATP-dependent helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000260537.	ATP-dependent RNA helicase involved in mRNA export from the nucleus. Rather than unwinding RNA duplexes, DDX19 functions as a remodeler of ribonucleoprotein particles, whereby proteins bound to nuclear mRNA are dissociated and replaced by cytoplasmic mRNA binding proteins (By similarity).	same
DDX24	DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of this family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. This gene encodes a DEAD box protein, which shows little similarity to any of the other known human DEAD box proteins, but shows a high similarity to mouse Ddx24 at the amino acid level. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DDX24 (DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) Box Helicase 24) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and RNA helicase activity.	ATP-dependent RNA helicase.	same
DDX20	DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of this family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. This gene encodes a DEAD box protein, which has an ATPase activity and is a component of the survival of motor neurons (SMN) complex. This protein interacts directly with SMN, the spinal muscular atrophy gene product, and may play a catalytic role in the function of the SMN complex on RNPs. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DDX20 (DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) Box Polypeptide 20) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DDX20 include spinal muscular atrophy and muscular atrophy. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and RNA transport. GO annotations related to this gene include ATP-dependent RNA helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DDX39B.	The SMN complex plays a catalyst role in the assembly of small nuclear ribonucleoproteins (snRNPs), the building blocks of the spliceosome. Thereby, plays an important role in the splicing of cellular pre-mRNAs. Most spliceosomal snRNPs contain a common set of Sm proteins SNRPB, SNRPD1, SNRPD2, SNRPD3, SNRPE, SNRPF and SNRPG that assemble in a heptameric protein ring on the Sm site of the small nuclear RNA to form the core snRNP. In the cytosol, the Sm proteins SNRPD1, SNRPD2, SNRPE, SNRPF and SNRPG are trapped in an inactive 6S pICln-Sm complex by the chaperone CLNS1A that controls the assembly of the core snRNP. Dissociation by the SMN complex of CLNS1A from the trapped Sm proteins and their transfer to an SMN-Sm complex triggers the assembly of core snRNPs and their transport to the nucleus. May also play a role in the metabolism of small nucleolar ribonucleoprotein (snoRNPs).	same
DDX17	DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure, such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and splicesosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of this family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. This gene encodes a DEAD box protein, which is an ATPase activated by a variety of RNA species, but not by dsDNA. This protein, and that encoded by DDX5 gene, are more closely related to each other than to any other member of the DEAD box family. This gene can encode multiple isoforms due to both alternative splicing and the use of alternative translation initiation codons, including a non-AUG (CUG) start codon. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2011]	DDX17 (DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) Box Helicase 17) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are GPCR Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and ATP-dependent helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DDX53.	RNA-dependent ATPase activity. Involved in transcriptional regulation. Transcriptional coactivator for estrogen receptor ESR1. Increases ESR1 AF-1 domain-mediated transactivation. Synergizes with DDX5 and SRA1 RNA to activate MYOD1 transcriptional activity and probably involved in skeletal muscle differentiation. Required for zinc-finger antiviral protein ZC3HAV1-mediated mRNA degradation.	same
DDX26B	empty	DDX26B (DEAD/H (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp/His) Box Polypeptide 26B) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is INTS6.	empty	same
DDX23	This gene encodes a member of the DEAD box protein family. DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure, such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of this family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. The protein encoded by this gene is a component of the U5 snRNP complex; it may facilitate conformational changes in the spliceosome during nuclear pre-mRNA splicing. An alternatively spliced transcript variant has been found for this gene, but its biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DDX23 (DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) Box Polypeptide 23) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DDX23 include distal hereditary motor neuropathy, type ii. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and Spliceosome. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleic acid binding and ATP-dependent RNA helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DDX59.	Involved in pre-mRNA splicing and its phosphorylated form (by SRPK2) is required for spliceosomal B complex formation.	same
DDX25	DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure, such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of the DEAD box protein family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. This gene encodes a member of this family. The encoded protein is a gonadotropin-regulated and developmentally expressed testicular RNA helicase. It may serve to maintain testicular functions related to steroidogenesis and spermatogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DDX25 (DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) Box Helicase 25) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and ATP-dependent RNA helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000260537.	ATP-dependent RNA helicase. Required for mRNA export and translation regulation during spermatid development (By similarity).	same
AMD1	This gene encodes an important intermediate enzyme in polyamine biosynthesis. The polyamines spermine, spermidine, and putrescine are low-molecular-weight aliphatic amines essential for cellular proliferation and tumor promotion. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified. Pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosomes 5, 6, 10, X and Y. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2013]	AMD1 (Adenosylmethionine Decarboxylase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with AMD1 include sleeping sickness and chagas disease. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Arginine and proline metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include adenosylmethionine decarboxylase activity.	Essential for biosynthesis of the polyamines spermidine and spermine. Promotes maintenance and self-renewal of embryonic stem cells, by maintaining spermine levels (By similarity).	same
DDX28	DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure, such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of the DEAD box protein family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. This gene is intronless. It encodes an RNA-dependent ATPase. The encoded protein is localized in the mitochondria and the nucleus, and can be transported between the mitochondria and the nucleus. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DDX28 (DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) Box Polypeptide 28) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and ATP-dependent helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DDX47.	May be involved in RNA processing or transport. Has RNA and Mg(2+)-dependent ATPase activity.	same
DDX31	DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of this DEAD box protein family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. This gene encodes a member of this family. The function of this member has not been determined. Alternative splicing of this gene generates 2 transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DDX31 (DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) Box Polypeptide 31) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and ATP-dependent helicase activity.	Probable ATP-dependent RNA helicase.	same
DDX3X	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the large DEAD-box protein family, that is defined by the presence of the conserved Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD) motif, and has ATP-dependent RNA helicase activity. This protein has been reported to display a high level of RNA-independent ATPase activity, and unlike most DEAD-box helicases, the ATPase activity is thought to be stimulated by both RNA and DNA. This protein has multiple conserved domains and is thought to play roles in both the nucleus and cytoplasm. Nuclear roles include transcriptional regulation, mRNP assembly, pre-mRNA splicing, and mRNA export. In the cytoplasm, this protein is thought to be involved in translation, cellular signaling, and viral replication. Misregulation of this gene has been implicated in tumorigenesis. This gene has a paralog located in the nonrecombining region of the Y chromosome. Pseudogenes sharing similarity to both this gene and the DDX3Y paralog are found on chromosome 4 and the X chromosome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014]	DDX3X (DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) Box Helicase 3, X-Linked) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DDX3X include hepatitis c and precursor t-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle / Checkpoint Control and Translational Control. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and ATPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DDX4.	Multifunctional ATP-dependent RNA helicase. The ATPase activity can be stimulated by various ribo- and deoxynucleic acids indicative for a relaxed substrate specificity. In vitro can unwind partially double-stranded DNA with a preference for 5-single-stranded DNA overhangs. Is involved in several steps of gene expression, such as transcription, mRNA maturation, mRNA export and translation. However, the exact mechanisms are not known and some functions may be specific for a subset of mRNAs. Involved in transcriptional regulation. Can enhance transcription from the CDKN1A/WAF1 promoter in a SP1-dependent manner. Found associated with the E-cadherin promoter and can down-regulate transcription from the promoter. Involved in regulation of translation initiation. Proposed to be involved in positive regulation of translation such as of cyclin E1/CCNE1 mRNA and specifically of mRNAs containing complex secondary structures in their 5UTRs; these functions seem to require RNA helicase activity. Specifically promotes translation of a subset of viral and cellular mRNAs carrying a 5proximal stem-loop structure in their 5UTRs and cooperates with the eIF4F complex. Proposed to act prior to 43S ribosomal scanning and to locally destabilize these RNA structures to allow recognition of the mRNA cap or loading onto the 40S subunit. After association with 40S ribosomal subunits seems to be involved in the functional assembly of 80S ribosomes; the function seems to cover translation of mRNAs with structured and non-structured 5UTRs and is independent of RNA helicase activity. Also proposed to inhibit cap-dependent translation by competetive interaction with EIF4E which can block the EIF4E:EIF4G complex formation. Proposed to be involved in stress response and stress granule assembly; the function is independent of RNA helicase activity and seems to involve association with EIF4E. May be involved in nuclear export of specific mRNAs but not in bulk mRNA export via interactions with XPO1 and NXF1. Also associates with polyadenylated mRNAs independently of NXF1. Associates with spliced mRNAs in an exon junction complex (EJC)-dependent manner and seems not to be directly involved in splicing. May be involved in nuclear mRNA export by association with DDX5 and regulating its nuclear location. Involved in innate immune signaling promoting the production of type I interferon (IFN-alpha and IFN-beta); proposed to act as viral RNA sensor, signaling intermediate and transcriptional coactivator. Involved in TBK1 and IKBKE-dependent IRF3 activation leading to IFNB induction, plays a role of scaffolding adapter that links IKBKE and IRF3 and coordinates their activation. Also found associated with IFNB promoters; the function is independent of IRF3. Can bind to viral RNAs and via association with MAVS/IPS1 and DDX58/RIG-I is thought to induce signaling in early stages of infection. Involved in regulation of apoptosis. May be required for activation of the intrinsic but inhibit activation of the extrinsic apoptotic pathway. Acts as an antiapoptotic protein through association with GSK3A/B and BIRC2 in an apoptosis antagonizing signaling complex; activation of death receptors promotes caspase-dependent cleavage of BIRC2 and DDX3X and relieves the inhibition. May be involved in mitotic chromosome segregation. Appears to be a prime target for viral manipulations. Hepatitis B virus (HBV) polymerase and possibly vaccinia virus (VACV) protein K7 inhibit IFNB induction probably by dissociating DDX3X from TBK1 or IKBKE. Is involved in hepatitis C virus (HCV) replication; the function may involve the association with HCV core protein. HCV core protein inhibits the IPS1-dependent function in viral RNA sensing and may switch the function from a INFB inducing to a HCV replication mode. Involved in HIV-1 replication. Acts as a cofactor for XPO1-mediated nuclear export of incompletely spliced HIV-1 Rev RNAs.	same
DDX39	This gene encodes a member of the DEAD box protein family. These proteins are characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD) and are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure, such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of the DEAD box protein family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. This gene is thought to play a role in the prognosis of patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumors. A pseudogene of this gene is present on chromosome 13. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Additional alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been described, but their full-length nature is not known. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2013]	DDX39A (DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) Box Polypeptide 39A) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleic acid binding and ATP-dependent helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DDX39B.	Isoform 1: Involved in pre-mRNA splicing. Required for the export of mRNA out of the nucleus.	diff
DDX27	DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of this family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. This gene encodes a DEAD box protein, the function of which has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DDX27 (DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) Box Polypeptide 27) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleic acid binding and ATP-dependent helicase activity.	Probable ATP-dependent RNA helicase	same
DDIT3	This gene encodes a member of the CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein (C/EBP) family of transcription factors. The protein functions as a dominant-negative inhibitor by forming heterodimers with other C/EBP members, such as C/EBP and LAP (liver activator protein), and preventing their DNA binding activity. The protein is implicated in adipogenesis and erythropoiesis, is activated by endoplasmic reticulum stress, and promotes apoptosis. Fusion of this gene and FUS on chromosome 16 or EWSR1 on chromosome 22 induced by translocation generates chimeric proteins in myxoid liposarcomas or Ewing sarcoma. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding two isoforms with different length have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]	DDIT3 (DNA-Damage-Inducible Transcript 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DDIT3 include myxoid liposarcoma and myxoid/round cell liposarcoma. Among its related pathways are MAPK signaling pathway and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factor activity and transcription factor binding.	Multifunctional transcription factor in ER stress response. Plays an essential role in the response to a wide variety of cell stresses and induces cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in response to ER stress. Plays a dual role both as an inhibitor of CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein (C/EBP) function and as an activator of other genes. Acts as a dominant-negative regulator of C/EBP-induced transcription: dimerizes with members of the C/EBP family, impairs their association with C/EBP binding sites in the promoter regions, and inhibits the expression of C/EBP regulated genes. Positively regulates the transcription of TRIB3, IL6, IL8, IL23, TNFRSF10B/DR5, PPP1R15A/GADD34, BBC3/PUMA, BCL2L11/BIM and ERO1L. Negatively regulates; expression of BCL2 and MYOD1, ATF4-dependent transcriptional activation of asparagine synthetase (ASNS), CEBPA-dependent transcriptional activation of hepcidin (HAMP) and CEBPB-mediated expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARG). Inhibits the canonical Wnt signaling pathway by binding to TCF7L2/TCF4, impairing its DNA-binding properties and repressing its transcriptional activity. Plays a regulatory role in the inflammatory response through the induction of caspase-11 (CASP4/CASP11) which induces the activation of caspase-1 (CASP1) and both these caspases increase the activation of pro-IL1B to mature IL1B which is involved in the inflammatory response.	same
DDX43	The protein encoded by this gene is an ATP-dependent RNA helicase in the DEAD-box family and displays tumor-specific expression. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DDX43 (DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) Box Polypeptide 43) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and ATP-dependent RNA helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DDX53.	empty	same
DDX42	This gene encodes a member of the Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD) box protein family. Members of this protein family are putative RNA helicases, and are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Members of this family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DDX42 (DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) Box Helicase 42) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Spliceosome. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and ATP-dependent helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DDX53.	ATP-dependent RNA helicase. Binds to partially double-stranded RNAs (dsRNAs) in order to unwind RNA secondary structures. Unwinding is promoted in the presence of single-strand binding proteins. Mediates also RNA duplex formation thereby displacing the single-strand RNA binding protein. ATP and ADP modulate its activity: ATP binding and hydrolysis by DDX42 triggers RNA strand separation, whereas the ADP-bound form of the protein triggers annealing of complementary RNA strands. Involved in the survival of cells by interacting with TP53BP2 and thereby counteracting the apoptosis-stimulating activity of TP53BP2. Relocalizes TP53BP2 to the cytoplasm.	same
DDX1	DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of this family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. This gene encodes a DEAD box protein of unknown function. It shows high transcription levels in 2 retinoblastoma cell lines and in tissues of neuroectodermal origin. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DDX1 (DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) Box Helicase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DDX1 include heavy chain disease and retinoblastoma. Among its related pathways are mRNA Splicing - Major Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include chromatin binding and transcription cofactor activity. An important paralog of this gene is DDX4.	Acts as an ATP-dependent RNA helicase, able to unwind both RNA-RNA and RNA-DNA duplexes. Possesses 5 single-stranded RNA overhang nuclease activity. Possesses ATPase activity on various RNA, but not DNA polynucleotides. May play a role in RNA clearance at DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs), thereby facilitating the template-guided repair of transcriptionally active regions of the genome. Together with RELA, acts as a coactivator to enhance NF-kappa-B-mediated transcriptional activation. Acts as a positive transcriptional regulator of cyclin CCND2 expression. Binds to the cyclin CCND2 promoter region. Associates with chromatin at the NF-kappa-B promoter region via association with RELA. Binds to poly(A) RNA. May be involved in 3-end cleavage and polyadenylation of pre-mRNAs. Component of the tRNA-splicing ligase complex required to facilitate the enzymatic turnover of catalytic subunit RTCB: together with archease (ZBTB8OS), acts by facilitating the guanylylation of RTCB, a key intermediate step in tRNA ligation (PubMed:24870230). Required for HIV-1 Rev function as well as for HIV-1 replication. Binds to the RRE sequence of HIV-1 mRNAs.	same
DDX51	empty	DDX51 (DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) Box Polypeptide 51) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and ATP-dependent helicase activity.	ATP-binding RNA helicase involved in the biogenesis of 60S ribosomal subunits.	same
DDX50	DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of this DEAD box protein family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. This gene encodes a DEAD box enzyme that may be involved in ribosomal RNA synthesis or processing. This gene and DDX21, also called RH-II/GuA, have similar genomic structures and are in tandem orientation on chromosome 10, suggesting that the two genes arose by gene duplication in evolution. This gene has pseudogenes on chromosomes 2, 3 and 4. Alternative splicing of this gene generates multiple transcript variants, but the full length nature of all the other variants but one has not been defined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DDX50 (DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) Box Polypeptide 50) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and ATP-dependent helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DDX21.	empty	same
DDX46	This gene encodes a member of the DEAD box protein family. DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure, such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of this family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. The protein encoded by this gene is a component of the 17S U2 snRNP complex; it plays an important role in pre-mRNA splicing. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]	DDX46 (DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) Box Polypeptide 46) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Spliceosome. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and ATP-dependent helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DDX53.	Plays an essential role in splicing, either prior to, or during splicing A complex formation.	same
DDX41	DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure, such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of the DEAD box protein family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. This gene encodes a member of this family. The function of this member has not been determined. Based on studies in Drosophila, the abstrakt gene is widely required during post-transcriptional gene expression. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DDX41 (DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) Box Polypeptide 41) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cytosolic sensors of pathogen-associated DNA and Cytosolic sensors of pathogen-associated DNA. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and ATP-dependent helicase activity.	Probable ATP-dependent RNA helicase. Is required during post-transcriptional gene expression. May be involved in pre-mRNA splicing	same
DDX55	This gene encodes a member of the DEAD box protein family. DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure, such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of this family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene, but the biological validity of only one transcript has been confirmed. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DDX55 (DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) Box Polypeptide 55) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and ATP-dependent helicase activity.	Probable ATP-binding RNA helicase	same
DDX49	empty	DDX49 (DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) Box Polypeptide 49) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and ATP-dependent helicase activity.	empty	same
DDX54	This gene encodes a member of the DEAD box protein family. DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of this family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. The nucleolar protein encoded by this gene interacts in a hormone-dependent manner with nuclear receptors, and represses their transcriptional activity. Alternative splice variants that encode different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DDX54 (DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) Box Polypeptide 54) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and transcription corepressor activity.	Has RNA-dependent ATPase activity. Represses the transcriptional activity of nuclear receptors.	same
DDX47	This gene encodes a member of the DEAD box protein family. DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure, such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of this family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. The protein encoded by this gene can shuttle between the nucleus and the cytoplasm, and has an RNA-independent ATPase activity. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DDX47 (DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) Box Polypeptide 47) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and ATP-dependent helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DDX28.	Involved in apoptosis. May have a role in rRNA processing and mRNA splicing. Associates with pre-rRNA precursors.	same
DDX56	This gene encodes a member of the DEAD box protein family. DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of this family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. The protein encoded by this gene shows ATPase activity in the presence of polynucleotides and associates with nucleoplasmic 65S preribosomal particles. This gene may be involved in ribosome synthesis, most likely during assembly of the large 60S ribosomal subunit. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]	DDX56 (DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) Box Helicase 56) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and ATP-dependent RNA helicase activity.	May play a role in later stages of the processing of the pre-ribosomal particles leading to mature 60S ribosomal subunits. Has intrinsic ATPase activity	same
DDX58	DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases which are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving RNA binding and alteration of RNA secondary structure. This gene encodes a protein containing RNA helicase-DEAD box protein motifs and a caspase recruitment domain (CARD). It is involved in viral double-stranded (ds) RNA recognition and the regulation of immune response. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DDX58 (DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) Box Polypeptide 58) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DDX58 include ebola hemorrhagic fever and parainfluenza virus type 3. Among its related pathways are Epstein-Barr virus infection and Interferon Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and ATP-dependent helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DICER1.	Innate immune receptor which acts as a cytoplasmic sensor of viral nucleic acids and plays a major role in sensing viral infection and in the activation of a cascade of antiviral responses including the induction of type I interferons and proinflammatory cytokines. Its ligands include: 5-triphosphorylated ssRNA and dsRNA and short dsRNA (<1 kb in length). In addition to the 5-triphosphate moiety, blunt-end base pairing at the 5-end of the RNA is very essential. Overhangs at the non-triphosphorylated end of the dsRNA RNA have no major impact on its activity. A 3overhang at the 5triphosphate end decreases and any 5overhang at the 5 triphosphate end abolishes its activity. Upon ligand binding it associates with mitochondria antiviral signaling protein (MAVS/IPS1) which activates the IKK-related kinases: TBK1 and IKBKE which phosphorylate interferon regulatory factors: IRF3 and IRF7 which in turn activate transcription of antiviral immunological genes, including interferons (IFNs); IFN-alpha and IFN-beta. Detects both positive and negative strand RNA viruses including members of the families Paramyxoviridae: Human respiratory syncytial virus and measles virus (MeV), Rhabdoviridae: vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV), Orthomyxoviridae: influenza A and B virus, Flaviviridae: Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV), hepatitis C virus (HCV), dengue virus (DENV) and west Nile virus (WNV). It also detects rotavirus and reovirus. Also involved in antiviral signaling in response to viruses containing a dsDNA genome such as Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). Detects dsRNA produced from non-self dsDNA by RNA polymerase III, such as Epstein-Barr virus-encoded RNAs (EBERs). May play important roles in granulocyte production and differentiation, bacterial phagocytosis and in the regulation of cell migration.	same
DDX3Y	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the DEAD-box RNA helicase family, characterized by nine conserved motifs, included the conserved Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD) motif. These motifs are thought to be involved in ATP binding, hydrolysis, RNA binding, and in the formation of intramolecular interactions. This protein shares high similarity to DDX3X, on the X chromosome, but a deletion of this gene is not complemented by DDX3X. Mutations in this gene result in male infertility, a reduction in germ cell numbers, and can result in Sertoli-cell only sydrome. Pseudogenes sharing similarity to both this gene and the DDX3X paralog are found on chromosome 4 and the X chromosome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014]	DDX3Y (DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) Box Helicase 3, Y-Linked) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DDX3Y include sertoli cell-only syndrome and male infertility. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and ATP-dependent helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DDX4.	Probable ATP-dependent RNA helicase. May play a role in spermatogenesis	same
DDX59	empty	DDX59 (DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) Box Polypeptide 59) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DDX59 include orofaciodigital syndrome v and orofaciodigital syndrome xiv. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and ATP-dependent helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DDX23.	empty	same
DDX5	DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure, such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of this family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. This gene encodes a DEAD box protein, which is a RNA-dependent ATPase, and also a proliferation-associated nuclear antigen, specifically reacting with the simian virus 40 tumor antigen. This gene consists of 13 exons, and alternatively spliced transcripts containing several intron sequences have been detected, but no isoforms encoded by these transcripts have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DDX5 (DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) Box Helicase 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Proteoglycans in cancer and Translational Control. GO annotations related to this gene include enzyme binding and calmodulin binding. An important paralog of this gene is DDX53.	Involved in the alternative regulation of pre-mRNA splicing; its RNA helicase activity is necessary for increasing tau exon 10 inclusion and occurs in a RBM4-dependent manner. Binds to the tau pre-mRNA in the stem-loop region downstream of exon 10. The rate of ATP hydrolysis is highly stimulated by single-stranded RNA. Involved in transcriptional regulation; the function is independent of the RNA helicase activity. Transcriptional coactivator for estrogen receptor ESR1 and androgen receptor AR. Increases ESR1 AF-1 domain-mediated transactivation and ESR1 AF-1 and AF-2 domains transcriptional synergistic activity. Synergizes with DDX17 and SRA1 RNA to activate MYOD1 transcriptional activity and involved in skeletal muscle differentiation. Transcriptional coactivator for p53/TP53 and involved in p53/TP53 transcriptional response to DNA damage and p53/TP53-dependent apoptosis. Transcriptional coactivator for RUNX2 and involved in regulation of osteoblast differentiation. Acts as transcriptional repressor in a promoter-specicic manner; the function probbaly involves association with histone deacetylases, such as HDAC1. As component of a large PER complex is involved in the inhibition of 3 transcriptional termination of circadian target genes such as PER1 and NR1D1 and the control of the circadian rhythms.	same
DDX60	empty	DDX60 (DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) Box Polypeptide 60) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include double-stranded DNA binding and double-stranded RNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is DDX60L.	Positively regulates DDX58/RIG-I- and IFIH1/MDA5-dependent type I interferon and interferon inducible gene expression in response to viral infection. Binds ssRNA, dsRNA and dsDNA and can promote the binding of DDX58/RIG-I to dsRNA. Exhibits antiviral activity against hepatitis C virus and vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV).	same
DDX6	This gene encodes a member of the DEAD box protein family. The protein is an RNA helicase found in P-bodies and stress granules, and functions in translation suppression and mRNA degradation. It is required for microRNA-induced gene silencing. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]	DDX6 (DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) Box Helicase 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Translational Control and Gene Expression. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and helicase activity.	In the process of mRNA degradation, may play a role in mRNA decapping	same
DEC1	The function of this gene is not known. This gene is located in a region commonly deleted in esophageal squamous cell carcinomas. Gene expression is reduced or absent in these carcinomas and thus this is a candidate tumor suppressor gene for esophageal squamous cell carcinomas. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DEC1 (Deleted In Esophageal Cancer 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Circadian rhythm pathway.	Candidate tumor suppressor.	same
DECR1	This gene encodes an accessory enzyme which participates in the beta-oxidation and metabolism of unsaturated fatty enoyl-CoA esters. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DECR1 (2,4-Dienoyl CoA Reductase 1, Mitochondrial) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DECR1 include 2,4-dienoyl-coa reductase deficiency and glucosephosphate dehydrogenase deficiency. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include NADPH binding and 2,4-dienoyl-CoA reductase (NADPH) activity. An important paralog of this gene is DECR2.	Auxiliary enzyme of beta-oxidation. It participates in the metabolism of unsaturated fatty enoyl-CoA esters having double bonds in both even- and odd-numbered positions. Catalyzes the NADP-dependent reduction of 2,4-dienoyl-CoA to yield trans-3-enoyl-CoA	same
DDX4	DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of this family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. This gene encodes a DEAD box protein, which is a homolog of VASA proteins in Drosophila and several other species. The gene is specifically expressed in the germ cell lineage in both sexes and functions in germ cell development. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]	DDX4 (DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) Box Polypeptide 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Translational Control. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleic acid binding and ATP-dependent helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DDX1.	May play a role in germ cell development. May play a role in sperm motility.	same
DEDD	This gene encodes a protein that contains a death effector domain (DED). DED is a protein-protein interaction domain shared by adaptors, regulators and executors of the programmed cell death pathway. Overexpression of this gene was shown to induce weak apoptosis. Upon stimulation, this protein was found to translocate from cytoplasm to nucleus and colocalize with UBTF, a basal factor required for RNA polymerase I transcription, in the nucleolus. At least three transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DEDD (Death Effector Domain Containing) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DEDD include dental fluorosis. An important paralog of this gene is DEDD2.	A scaffold protein that directs CASP3 to certain substrates and facilitates their ordered degradation during apoptosis. May also play a role in mediating CASP3 cleavage of KRT18. Regulates degradation of intermediate filaments during apoptosis. May play a role in the general transcription machinery in the nucleus and might be an important regulator of the activity of GTF3C3. Inhibits DNA transcription in vitro (By similarity).	same
DEF6	DEF6, or IBP, is a guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) for RAC (MIM 602048) and CDC42 (MIM 116952) that is highly expressed in B and T cells (Gupta et al., 2003 [PubMed 12923183]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	DEF6 (Differentially Expressed In FDCP 6 Homolog (Mouse)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are G-protein signaling_Regulation of CDC42 activity and Regulation of RhoA activity. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is SWAP70.	Phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate-dependent guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) which plays a role in the activation of Rho GTPases RAC1, RhoA and CDC42. Can regulate cell morphology in cooperation with activated RAC1. Plays a role in Th2 (T helper cells) development and/or activation, perhaps by interfering with ZAP70 signaling (By similarity).	same
DEF8	empty	DEF8 (Differentially Expressed In FDCP 8 Homolog (Mouse)) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is KIAA0226L.	empty	same
DEFA1B	Defensins are a family of antimicrobial and cytotoxic peptides thought to be involved in host defense. They are abundant in the granules of neutrophils and also found in the epithelia of mucosal surfaces such as those of the intestine, respiratory tract, urinary tract, and vagina. Members of the defensin family are highly similar in protein sequence and distinguished by a conserved cysteine motif. The protein encoded by this gene, defensin, alpha 1, is found in the microbicidal granules of neutrophils and likely plays a role in phagocyte-mediated host defense. Several alpha defensin genes are clustered on chromosome 8. This gene differs from defensin, alpha 3 by only one amino acid. This gene and the gene encoding defensin, alpha 3 are both subject to copy number variation. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014]	DEFA1B (Defensin, Alpha 1B) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Defensins and Defensins. An important paralog of this gene is DEFA3.	Defensin 1 and defensin 2 have antibacterial, fungicide and antiviral activities. Has antimicrobial activity against Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria. Defensins are thought to kill microbes by permeabilizing their plasma membrane.	same
DEFA6	Defensins are a family of antimicrobial and cytotoxic peptides thought to be involved in host defense. They are abundant in the granules of neutrophils and also found in the epithelia of mucosal surfaces such as those of the intestine, respiratory tract, urinary tract, and vagina. Members of the defensin family are highly similar in protein sequence and distinguished by a conserved cysteine motif. Several alpha defensin genes appear to be clustered on chromosome 8. The protein encoded by this gene, defensin, alpha 6, is highly expressed in the secretory granules of Paneth cells of the small intestine, and likely plays a role in host defense of human bowel. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014]	DEFA6 (Defensin, Alpha 6, Paneth Cell-Specific) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DEFA6 include childhood leukemia. Among its related pathways are G-protein signaling_Regulation of CDC42 activity and Regulation of RhoA activity. An important paralog of this gene is DEFA3.	Has very low antimicrobial activity against Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria. May protect cells against infection with HIV-1.	same
DEFB103B	Defensins form a family of microbicidal and cytotoxic peptides made by neutrophils. Members of the defensin family are highly similar in protein sequence. This gene encodes defensin, beta 103, which has broad spectrum antimicrobial activity and may play an important role in innate epithelial defense. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014]	DEFB103B (Defensin, Beta 103B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DEFB103B include burns and osteonecrosis of the jaw. Among its related pathways are Defensins and Defensins. An important paralog of this gene is DEFB103A.	Exhibits antimicrobial activity against Gram-positive bacteria S.aureus and S.pyogenes, Gram-negative bacteria P.aeruginosa and E.coli and the yeast C.albicans. Kills multiresistant S.aureus and vancomycin-resistant E.faecium. No significant hemolytic activity was observed.	same
DEFA5	Defensins are a family of antimicrobial and cytotoxic peptides thought to be involved in host defense. They are abundant in the granules of neutrophils and also found in the epithelia of mucosal surfaces such as those of the intestine, respiratory tract, urinary tract, and vagina. Members of the defensin family are highly similar in protein sequence and distinguished by a conserved cysteine motif. Several of the alpha defensin genes appear to be clustered on chromosome 8. The protein encoded by this gene, defensin, alpha 5, is highly expressed in the secretory granules of Paneth cells of the ileum. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014]	DEFA5 (Defensin, Alpha 5, Paneth Cell-Specific) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DEFA5 include urethritis and microsporidiosis. Among its related pathways are Defensins and Defensins. An important paralog of this gene is DEFA3.	Has antimicrobial activity against Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria. Defensins are thought to kill microbes by permeabilizing their plasma membrane. All DEFA5 peptides exert antimicrobial activities, but their potency is affected by peptide processing.	same
DEFB106A	Defensins form a family of antimicrobial and cytotoxic peptides made by neutrophils. Defensins are short, processed peptide molecules that are classified by structure into three groups: alpha-defensins, beta-defensins and theta-defensins. All beta-defensin genes are densely clustered in four to five syntenic chromosomal regions. Chromosome 8p23 contains at least two copies of the duplicated beta-defensin cluster. This duplication results in two identical copies of defensin, beta 106, DEFB106A and DEFB106B, in head-to-head orientation. This gene, DEFB106A, represents the more centromeric copy. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014]	DEFB106A (Defensin, Beta 106A) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Defensins and Defensins. An important paralog of this gene is DEFB106B.	Has antibacterial activity.	same
DDX60L	empty	DDX60L (DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) Box Polypeptide 60-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and ATP-dependent helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DDX60.	empty	same
DEFB108B	Defensins form a family of antimicrobial and cytotoxic peptides made by neutrophils. Defensins are short, processed peptide molecules that are classified by structure into three groups: alpha-defensins, beta-defensins and theta-defensins. All beta-defensin genes are densely clustered in four to five syntenic chromosomal regions. A pseudogene of this gene has been found on chromosome 8. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014]	DEFB108B (Defensin, Beta 108B) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Defensins and Defensins.	Has antibacterial activity.	same
DEFB107A	Defensins form a family of antimicrobial and cytotoxic peptides made by neutrophils. Defensins are short, processed peptide molecules that are classified by structure into three groups: alpha-defensins, beta-defensins and theta-defensins. All beta-defensin genes are densely clustered in four to five syntenic chromosomal regions. Chromosome 8p23 contains at least two copies of the duplicated beta-defensin cluster. This duplication results in two identical copies of defensin, beta 107, DEFB107A and DEFB107B, in tail-to-tail orientation. This gene, DEFB107A, represents the more centromeric copy. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014]	DEFB107A (Defensin, Beta 107A) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Defensins and Defensins. An important paralog of this gene is DEFB107B.	Has antibacterial activity.	same
DEFB110	Defensins form a family of antimicrobial and cytotoxic peptides made by neutrophils. Defensins are short, processed peptide molecules that are classified by structure into three groups: alpha-defensins, beta-defensins and theta-defensins. All beta-defensin genes are densely clustered in four to five syntenic chromosomal regions. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014]	DEFB110 (Defensin, Beta 110) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Defensins and Defensins.	Has antibacterial activity.	same
DEFB109P1	empty	DEFB109P1 (Defensin, Beta 109, Pseudogene 1) is a Pseudogene.	Has antibacterial activity.	same
DEFB105A	Defensins form a family of antimicrobial and cytotoxic peptides made by neutrophils. Defensins are short, processed peptide molecules that are classified by structure into three groups: alpha-defensins, beta-defensins and theta-defensins. All beta-defensin genes are densely clustered in four to five syntenic chromosomal regions. Chromosome 8p23 contains at least two copies of the duplicated beta-defensin cluster. This duplication results in two identical copies of defensin, beta 105, DEFB105A and DEFB105B, in tail-to-tail orientation. This gene, DEFB105A, represents the more centromeric copy. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014]	DEFB105A (Defensin, Beta 105A) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Defensins and Defensins. An important paralog of this gene is DEFB105B.	Has antibacterial activity.	same
DEFB113	Defensins form a family of antimicrobial and cytotoxic peptides made by neutrophils. Defensins are short, processed peptide molecules that are classified by structure into three groups: alpha-defensins, beta-defensins and theta-defensins. All beta-defensin genes are densely clustered in four to five syntenic chromosomal regions. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014]	DEFB113 (Defensin, Beta 113) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Defensins and Defensins.	Has antibacterial activity.	same
DEFB112	Defensins form a family of antimicrobial and cytotoxic peptides made by neutrophils. Defensins are short, processed peptide molecules that are classified by structure into three groups: alpha-defensins, beta-defensins and theta-defensins. All beta-defensin genes are densely clustered in four to five syntenic chromosomal regions. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014]	DEFB112 (Defensin, Beta 112) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Defensins and Defensins.	Has antibacterial activity.	same
DEAF1	This gene encodes a zinc finger domain-containing protein that functions as a regulator of transcription. The encoded proteins binds to its own promoter as well as to that of several target genes. Activity of this protein is important in the regulation of embryonic development. Mutations in this gene have been found in individuals with autosomal dominant mental retardation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2014]	DEAF1 (DEAF1 Transcription Factor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DEAF1 include mental retardation, autosomal dominant 24. Among its related pathways are Hemostasis and Epstein-Barr virus infection. An important paralog of this gene is RUNX1T1.	Transcription factor that binds to sequence with multiple copies of 5-TTC[CG]G-3 present in its own promoter and that of the HNRPA2B1 gene. Down-regulates transcription of these genes. Binds to the retinoic acid response element (RARE) 5-AGGGTTCACCGAAAGTTCA-3. Activates the proenkephalin gene independently of promoter binding, probably through protein-protein interaction. When secreted, behaves as an inhibitor of cell proliferation, by arresting cells in the G0 or G1 phase. Required for neural tube closure and skeletal patterning. Regulates epithelial cell proliferation and side-branching in the mammary gland. Controls the expression of peripheral tissue antigens in pancreatic lymph nodes. Isoform 1 displays greater transcriptional activity than isoform 4. Isoform 4 may inhibit transcriptional activity of isoform 1 by interacting with isoform 1 and retaining it in the cytoplasm. Transcriptional activator of EIF4G3.	same
DEFB114	Defensins form a family of antimicrobial and cytotoxic peptides made by neutrophils. Defensins are short, processed peptide molecules that are classified by structure into three groups: alpha-defensins, beta-defensins and theta-defensins. All beta-defensin genes are densely clustered in four to five syntenic chromosomal regions. The protein encoded by this gene is a beta-defensin with antimicrobial activity against E. coli, S. aureus, and C. albicans. The encoded protein also binds and neutralizes lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a factor involved in inflammatory diseases and male reproductive issues. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]	DEFB114 (Defensin, Beta 114) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Defensins and Defensins. GO annotations related to this gene include lipopolysaccharide binding.	Has a salt-sensitive antimicrobial activity against Gram-negative bacteria, including E.coli, Gram-positive, including S.aureus, and fungi, including C.albicans. Binds to and neutralizes bacterial lipopolysaccharides (LPS), abolishing TNF production by macrophages challenged with LPS. Rescues the LPS-induced reduction of sperm motility in vitro and may protect from LPS-induced lethality.	same
DEFA4	Defensins are a family of antimicrobial and cytotoxic peptides thought to be involved in host defense. They are abundant in the granules of neutrophils and also found in the epithelia of mucosal surfaces such as those of the intestine, respiratory tract, urinary tract, and vagina. Members of the defensin family are highly similar in protein sequence and distinguished by a conserved cysteine motif. Several alpha defensin genes are clustered on chromosome 8. This gene differs from other genes of this family by an extra 83-base segment that is apparently the result of a recent duplication within the coding region. The protein encoded by this gene, defensin, alpha 4, is found in the neutrophils; it exhibits corticostatic activity and inhibits corticotropin stimulated corticosterone production. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014]	DEFA4 (Defensin, Alpha 4, Corticostatin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DEFA4 include childhood leukemia and colorectal cancer. Among its related pathways are Defensins and Defensins. An important paralog of this gene is DEFA3.	Has antimicrobial activity against Gram-negative bacteria, and to a lesser extent also against Gram-positive bacteria and fungi. Protects blood cells against infection with HIV-1 (in vitro). Inhibits corticotropin (ACTH)-stimulated corticosterone production.	same
DDX53	This intronless gene encodes a protein which contains several domains found in members of the DEAD-box helicase protein family. Other members of this protein family participate in ATP-dependent RNA unwinding. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011]	DDX53 (DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) Box Polypeptide 53) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DDX53 include autism spectrum disorder. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and ATP-dependent helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DDX43.	empty	same
DDX52	empty	DDX52 (DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) Box Polypeptide 52) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and ATP-dependent helicase activity.	empty	same
DEFB122	empty	DEFB122 (Defensin, Beta 122 (Pseudogene)) is a Pseudogene.	empty	same
DEFB123	Defensins are cysteine-rich cationic polypeptides that are important in the host immunologic response to invading microorganisms. This antimicrobial protein is secreted and is a member of the beta defensin protein family. Beta defensin genes are found in several clusters throughout the genome, with this gene mapping to a cluster at 20q11.1. Two transcript variants, one protein-coding and the other not, have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]	DEFB123 (Defensin, Beta 123) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Defensins and Defensins.	Has antibacterial activity.	same
DEFB119	This gene encodes a member of the beta subfamily of defensins. Beta-defensins are antimicrobial peptides that protect tissues and organs from infection by a variety of microorganisms. This gene is found in a cluster with other beta-defensin genes on the long arm of chromosome 20. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]	DEFB119 (Defensin, Beta 119) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DEFB119 include childhood leukemia. Among its related pathways are Defensins and Defensins.	Has antibacterial activity.	same
DEFB124	Defensins are cysteine-rich cationic polypeptides that are important in the host immunologic response to invading microorganisms. This antimicrobial protein is secreted and is a member of the beta defensin protein family. Beta defensin genes are found in several clusters throughout the genome, with this gene mapping to a cluster at 20q11.1. The encoded protein may serve to enhance innate immunity in the prostate. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]	DEFB124 (Defensin, Beta 124) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Defensins and Defensins.	Has antibacterial activity.	same
DEFB104A	Defensins form a family of antimicrobial and cytotoxic peptides made by neutrophils. Defensins are short, processed peptide molecules that are classified by structure into three groups: alpha-defensins, beta-defensins and theta-defensins. All beta-defensin genes are densely clustered in four to five syntenic chromosomal regions. Chromosome 8p23 contains at least two copies of the duplicated beta-defensin cluster. This duplication results in two identical copies of defensin, beta 104, DEFB104A and DEFB104B, in head-to-head orientation. This gene, DEFB104A, represents the more centromeric copy. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014]	DEFB104A (Defensin, Beta 104A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DEFB104A include ulcerative colitis. Among its related pathways are Defensins and Defensins. An important paralog of this gene is DEFB104B.	Has antimicrobial activity. Synergistic effects with lysozyme and DEFB103.	same
DEFB115	Defensins form a family of antimicrobial and cytotoxic peptides made by neutrophils. Defensins are short, processed peptide molecules that are classified by structure into three groups: alpha-defensins, beta-defensins and theta-defensins. All beta-defensin genes are densely clustered in four to five syntenic chromosomal regions. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014]	DEFB115 (Defensin, Beta 115) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Defensins and Defensins.	Has antibacterial activity.	same
DEFB125	Defensins are cysteine-rich cationic polypeptides that are important in the host immunologic response to invading microorganisms. The antimicrobial protein encoded by this gene is secreted and is a member of the beta defensin protein family. Beta defensin genes are found in several clusters throughout the genome, with this gene mapping to a cluster at 20p13. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]	DEFB125 (Defensin, Beta 125) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Defensins and Defensins.	Has antibacterial activity.	same
DEFB118	This gene encodes a member of the beta subfamily of defensins. Beta-defensins are antimicrobial peptides that protect tissues and organs from infection by a variety of microorganisms. Expression of this gene is regulated by androgen, and the encoded protein binds to sperm and exhibits antibacterial activity against E. coli. This gene is found in a cluster with other beta-defensin genes on the long arm of chromosome 20. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]	DEFB118 (Defensin, Beta 118) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DEFB118 include childhood leukemia. Among its related pathways are Defensins and Defensins.	Has antibacterial activity.	same
DEFB116	Defensins form a family of antimicrobial and cytotoxic peptides made by neutrophils. Defensins are short, processed peptide molecules that are classified by structure into three groups: alpha-defensins, beta-defensins and theta-defensins. All beta-defensin genes are densely clustered in four to five syntenic chromosomal regions. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014]	DEFB116 (Defensin, Beta 116) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Defensins and Defensins.	Has antibacterial activity.	same
DEFB127	Defensins are cysteine-rich cationic polypeptides that are important in the immunologic response to invading microorganisms. The antimicrobial protein encoded by this gene is secreted and is a member of the beta defensin protein family. Beta defensin genes are found in several clusters throughout the genome, with this gene mapping to a cluster at 20p13. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]	DEFB127 (Defensin, Beta 127) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DEFB127 include childhood leukemia. Among its related pathways are Defensins and Defensins.	Has antibacterial activity.	same
DEFB109P1B	empty	DEFB109P1B (Defensin, Beta 109, Pseudogene 1B) is a Pseudogene.	Has antibacterial activity.	same
DEFB129	Defensins are cysteine-rich cationic polypeptides that are important in the immunologic response to invading microorganisms. The antimicrobial protein encoded by this gene is secreted and is a member of the beta defensin protein family. Beta defensin genes are found in several clusters throughout the genome, with this gene mapping to a cluster at 20p13. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]	DEFB129 (Defensin, Beta 129) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Defensins and Defensins.	Has antibacterial activity.	same
DEFB126	Defensins are cysteine-rich cationic polypeptides that are important in the immunologic response to invading microorganisms. The antimicrobial protein encoded by this gene is secreted and is a member of the beta defensin protein family. Beta defensin genes are found in several clusters throughout the genome, with this gene mapping to a cluster at 20p13. The encoded protein is highly similar to an epididymal-specific secretory protein (ESP13.2) from cynomolgus monkey. Mutation of this gene is associated with impaired sperm function. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]	DEFB126 (Defensin, Beta 126) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DEFB126 include childhood leukemia. Among its related pathways are Defensins and Defensins.	Has antibacterial activity.	same
DEFB121	This gene encodes a member of the beta subfamily of defensins. Beta-defensins are antimicrobial peptides that protect tissues and organs from infection by a variety of microorganisms. This gene is found in a cluster with other beta-defensin genes on the long arm of chromosome 20. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]	DEFB121 (Defensin, Beta 121) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Defensins and Defensins.	Has antibacterial activity.	same
DEFB134	Defensins are cysteine-rich cationic polypeptides that are important in the immunologic response to invading microorganisms. The antimicrobial protein encoded by this gene is secreted and is a member of the beta defensin protein family. Beta defensin genes are found in several clusters throughout the genome, with this gene mapping to a cluster at 8p23. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]	DEFB134 (Defensin, Beta 134) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Defensins and Defensins.	Has antibacterial activity.	same
DEFB131	Defensins are cysteine-rich cationic polypeptides that are important in the immunologic response to invading microorganisms. The antimicrobial protein encoded by this gene is secreted and is a member of the beta defensin protein family. Beta defensin genes are found in several clusters throughout the genome, with this gene mapping to a cluster at 4p16. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]	DEFB131 (Defensin, Beta 131) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Defensins and Defensins. An important paralog of this gene is LOC100129216.	Has antibacterial activity.	same
DECR2	empty	DECR2 (2,4-Dienoyl CoA Reductase 2, Peroxisomal) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Peroxisome. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and trans-2-enoyl-CoA reductase (NADPH) activity. An important paralog of this gene is HSD17B10.	Auxiliary enzyme of beta-oxidation. Participates in the degradation of unsaturated fatty enoyl-CoA esters having double bonds in both even- and odd-numbered positions in peroxisome. Catalyzes the NADP-dependent reduction of 2,4-dienoyl-CoA to yield trans-3-enoyl-CoA. Has activity towards short and medium chain 2,4-dienoyl-CoAs, but also towards 2,4,7,10,13,16,19-docosaheptaenoyl-CoA, suggesting that it does not constitute a rate limiting step in the peroxisomal degradation of docosahexaenoic acid	same
DEFB135	Defensins are cysteine-rich cationic polypeptides that are important in the immunologic response to invading microorganisms. The antimicrobial protein encoded by this gene is secreted and is a member of the beta defensin protein family. Beta defensin genes are found in several clusters throughout the genome, with this gene mapping to a cluster at 8p23. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]	DEFB135 (Defensin, Beta 135) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Defensins and Defensins.	Has antibacterial activity.	same
DEDD2	This gene encodes a nuclear-localized protein containing a death effector domain (DED). The encoded protein may regulate the trafficking of caspases and other proteins into the nucleus during death receptor-induced apoptosis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]	DEDD2 (Death Effector Domain Containing 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor signaling complex scaffold activity. An important paralog of this gene is DEDD.	May play a critical role in death receptor-induced apoptosis and may target CASP8 and CASP10 to the nucleus. May regulate degradation of intermediate filaments during apoptosis. May play a role in the general transcription machinery in the nucleus and might be an important regulator of the activity of GTF3C3	same
DEFB136	Defensins are cysteine-rich cationic polypeptides that are important in the immunologic response to invading microorganisms. The antimicrobial protein encoded by this gene is secreted and is a member of the beta defensin protein family. Beta defensin genes are found in several clusters throughout the genome, with this gene mapping to a cluster at 8p23. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]	DEFB136 (Defensin, Beta 136) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Defensins and Defensins.	Has antibacterial activity.	same
DEFB1	Defensins form a family of microbicidal and cytotoxic peptides made by neutrophils. Members of the defensin family are highly similar in protein sequence. This gene encodes defensin, beta 1, an antimicrobial peptide implicated in the resistance of epithelial surfaces to microbial colonization. This gene maps in close proximity to defensin family member, defensin, alpha 1 and has been implicated in the pathogenesis of cystic fibrosis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DEFB1 (Defensin, Beta 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DEFB1 include localized scleroderma and corneal abscess. Among its related pathways are Defensins and Defensins.	Has bactericidal activity.	same
DEFB128	Defensins are cysteine-rich cationic polypeptides that are important in the immunologic response to invading microorganisms. The antimicrobial protein encoded by this gene is secreted and is a member of the beta defensin protein family. Beta defensin genes are found in several clusters throughout the genome, with this gene mapping to a cluster at 20p13. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]	DEFB128 (Defensin, Beta 128) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Defensins and Defensins.	Has antibacterial activity.	same
DEGS2	This gene encodes a bifunctional enzyme that is involved in the biosynthesis of phytosphingolipids in human skin and in other phytosphingolipid-containing tissues. This enzyme can act as a sphingolipid delta(4)-desaturase, and also as a sphingolipid C4-hydroxylase. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]	DEGS2 (Delta(4)-Desaturase, Sphingolipid 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Sphingolipid metabolism and Sphingolipid metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include sphingosine hydroxylase activity and sphingolipid delta-4 desaturase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DEGS1.	Bifunctional enzyme which acts as both a sphingolipid delta(4)-desaturase and a sphingolipid C4-hydroxylase.	same
DEGS1	This gene encodes a member of the membrane fatty acid desaturase family which is responsible for inserting double bonds into specific positions in fatty acids. This protein contains three His-containing consensus motifs that are characteristic of a group of membrane fatty acid desaturases. It is predicted to be a multiple membrane-spanning protein localized to the endoplasmic reticulum. Overexpression of this gene inhibited biosynthesis of the EGF receptor, suggesting a possible role of a fatty acid desaturase in regulating biosynthetic processing of the EGF receptor. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]	DEGS1 (Delta(4)-Desaturase, Sphingolipid 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DEGS1 include mantle cell lymphoma. Among its related pathways are Sphingolipid metabolism and Sphingolipid metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and oxidoreductase activity, acting on paired donors, with incorporation or reduction of molecular oxygen. An important paralog of this gene is DEGS2.	Has sphingolipid-delta-4-desaturase activity. Converts D-erythro-sphinganine to D-erythro-sphingosine (E-sphing-4-enine).	same
DEM1	empty	EXO5 (Exonuclease 5) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and single-stranded DNA 3-5 exodeoxyribonuclease activity.	Single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) bidirectional exonuclease involved in DNA repair. Probably involved in DNA repair following ultraviolet (UV) irradiation and interstrand cross-links (ICLs) damage. Has both 5-3 and 3-5 exonuclease activities with a strong preference for 5-ends. Acts as a sliding exonuclease that loads at ssDNA ends and then slides along the ssDNA prior to cutting; however the sliding and the 3-5 exonuclease activities are abolished upon binding to the replication protein A (RPA) complex that enforces 5-directionality activity.	diff
DEFB132	Defensins are cysteine-rich cationic polypeptides that are important in the immunologic response to invading microorganisms. The protein encoded by this gene is secreted and is a member of the beta defensin protein family. This protein binds spermatozoa and has antimicrobial activity against E. coli. Beta defensin genes are found in several clusters throughout the genome, with this gene mapping to a cluster at 20p13. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]	DEFB132 (Defensin, Beta 132) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Defensins and Defensins.	Has antibacterial activity.	same
DENND1B	Clathrin (see MIM 118955)-mediated endocytosis is a major mechanism for internalization of proteins and lipids. Members of the connecdenn family, such as DENND1B, function as guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) for the early endosomal small GTPase RAB35 (MIM 604199) and bind to clathrin and clathrin adaptor protein-2 (AP2; see MIM 601024). Thus, connecdenns link RAB35 activation with the clathrin machinery (Marat and McPherson, 2010 [PubMed 20154091]).[supplied by OMIM, Nov 2010]	DENND1B (DENN/MADD Domain Containing 1B) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include Rab guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is DENND2C.	Guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) for RAB35. Promotes the exchange of GDP to GTP, converting inactive GDP-bound RAB35 into its active GTP-bound form. May play a role in clathrin-mediated endocytosis.	same
DENND2C	empty	DENND2C (DENN/MADD Domain Containing 2C) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include Rab guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is DENND5B.	Guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) which may activate RAB9A and RAB9B. Promotes the exchange of GDP to GTP, converting inactive GDP-bound Rab proteins into their active GTP-bound form.	same
DENND2A	empty	DENND2A (DENN/MADD Domain Containing 2A) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include Rab guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is DENND2C.	Guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) which may activate RAB9A and RAB9B. Promotes the exchange of GDP to GTP, converting inactive GDP-bound Rab proteins into their active GTP-bound form. May play a role in late endosomes back to trans-Golgi network/TGN transport.	same
DENND1C	Clathrin (see MIM 118955)-mediated endocytosis is a major mechanism for internalization of proteins and lipids. Members of the connecdenn family, such as DENND1C, function as guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) for the early endosomal small GTPase RAB35 (MIM 604199) and bind to clathrin and clathrin adaptor protein-2 (AP2; see MIM 601024). Thus, connecdenns link RAB35 activation with the clathrin machinery (Marat and McPherson, 2010 [PubMed 20154091]).[supplied by OMIM, Nov 2010]	DENND1C (DENN/MADD Domain Containing 1C) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include Rab guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is DENND2C.	Guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) which may activate RAB8A, RAB13 and RAB35. Promotes the exchange of GDP to GTP, converting inactive GDP-bound Rab proteins into their active GTP-bound form.	same
DEFB130	Defensins are cysteine-rich cationic polypeptides that are important in the immunologic response to invading microorganisms. The antimicrobial protein encoded by this gene is secreted and is a member of the beta defensin protein family. Beta defensin genes are found in several clusters throughout the genome, with this gene mapping to a cluster at 8p23. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014]	DEFB130 (Defensin, Beta 130) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Defensins and Defensins. An important paralog of this gene is LOC100133267.	Has antibacterial activity.	same
DENND4C	empty	DENND4C (DENN/MADD Domain Containing 4C) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include Rab guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is DENND2C.	Guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) activating RAB10. Promotes the exchange of GDP to GTP, converting inactive GDP-bound RAB10 into its active GTP-bound form. Thereby, stimulates SLC2A4/GLUT4 glucose transporter-enriched vesicles delivery to the plasma membrane in response to insulin.	same
DEK	This gene encodes a protein with one SAP domain. This protein binds to cruciform and superhelical DNA and induces positive supercoils into closed circular DNA, and is also involved in splice site selection during mRNA processing. Chromosomal aberrations involving this region, increased expression of this gene, and the presence of antibodies against this protein are all associated with various diseases. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008]	DEK (DEK Proto-Oncogene) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DEK include 'acute myeloid leukemia with t(6;9)(p23;q34)' and iridocyclitis. GO annotations related to this gene include histone binding.	Involved in chromatin organization.	same
DENND4B	empty	DENND4B (DENN/MADD Domain Containing 4B) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include Rab guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is DENND2C.	Guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) which may activate RAB10. Promotes the exchange of GDP to GTP, converting inactive GDP-bound Rab proteins into their active GTP-bound form.	same
DENND1A	Clathrin (see MIM 118955)-mediated endocytosis is a major mechanism for internalization of proteins and lipids. Members of the connecdenn family, such as DENND1A, function as guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) for the early endosomal small GTPase RAB35 (MIM 604199) and bind to clathrin and clathrin adaptor protein-2 (AP2; see MIM 601024). Thus, connecdenns link RAB35 activation with the clathrin machinery (Marat and McPherson, 2010 [PubMed 20154091]).[supplied by OMIM, Nov 2010]	DENND1A (DENN/MADD Domain Containing 1A) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include SH3 domain binding and Rab guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is DENND2C.	Guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) regulating clathrin-mediated endocytosis through RAB35 activation. Promotes the exchange of GDP to GTP, converting inactive GDP-bound RAB35 into its active GTP-bound form. Regulates clathrin-mediated endocytosis of synaptic vesicles.	same
DENND3	empty	DENND3 (DENN/MADD Domain Containing 3) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include Rab guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is DENND2C.	Guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) activating RAB12. Promotes the exchange of GDP to GTP, converting inactive GDP-bound RAB12 into its active GTP-bound form. Thereby, may play a role in protein transport from recycling endosomes to lysosomes regulating, for instance, the degradation of the transferrin receptor.	same
DENND2D	empty	DENND2D (DENN/MADD Domain Containing 2D) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include Rab guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is DENND2C.	Guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) which may activate RAB9A and RAB9B. Promotes the exchange of GDP to GTP, converting inactive GDP-bound Rab proteins into their active GTP-bound form.	same
DENND4A	empty	DENND4A (DENN/MADD Domain Containing 4A) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include Rab guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is DENND2C.	Probable guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) which may activate RAB10. Promotes the exchange of GDP to GTP, converting inactive GDP-bound Rab proteins into their active GTP-bound form. According to PubMed:8056341, it may bind to ISRE-like element (interferon-stimulated response element) of MYC P2 promoter.	same
DEPDC1B	empty	DEPDC1B (DEP Domain Containing 1B) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DEPDC1B include breast cancer. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Rho GTPase cycle. GO annotations related to this gene include GTPase activator activity. An important paralog of this gene is DEPDC4.	empty	same
DENR	This gene encodes a protein whose expression was found to increase in cultured cells at high density but not during growth arrest. This gene was also shown to have increased expression in cells overexpressing HER-2/neu proto-oncogene. The protein contains an SUI1 domain. In budding yeast, SUI1 is a translation initiation factor that along with eIF-2 and the initiator tRNA-Met, directs the ribosome to the proper translation start site. Proteins similar to SUI have been found in mammals, insects, and plants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DENR (Density-Regulated Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DENR include pleomorphic adenoma. GO annotations related to this gene include translation initiation factor activity.	May be involved in the translation of target mRNAs by scanning and recognition of the initiation codon. Involved in translation initiation; promotes recruitmnet of aminoacetyled initiator tRNA to P site of 40S ribosomes. Can promote release of deacylated tRNA and mRNA from recycled 40S subunits following ABCE1-mediated dissociation of post-termination ribosomal complexes into subunits. Plays a role in the modulation of the translational profile of a subset of cancer-related mRNAs when recruited to the translational initiation complex by the oncogene MCTS1.	same
DEFB4A	Defensins form a family of microbicidal and cytotoxic peptides made by neutrophils. Members of the defensin family are highly similar in protein sequence. This gene encodes defensin, beta 4, an antibiotic peptide which is locally regulated by inflammation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DEFB4A (Defensin, Beta 4A) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DEFB4A include oral candidiasis and middle ear cholesteatoma. Among its related pathways are Defensins and Bacterial infections in CF airways. An important paralog of this gene is DEFB4B.	Has antibacterial activity.	same
DEPDC1	empty	DEPDC1 (DEP Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include GTPase activator activity. An important paralog of this gene is DEPDC1B.	May be involved in transcriptional regulation as a transcriptional corepressor. The DEPDC1A-ZNF224 complex may play a critical role in bladder carcinogenesis by repressing the transcription of the A20 gene, leading to transport of NF-KB protein into the nucleus, resulting in suppression of apoptosis of bladder cancer cells.	same
DEPDC5	This gene encodes a member of the IML1 family of proteins involved in G-protein signaling pathways. The mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) pathway regulates cell growth by sensing the availability of nutrients. The protein encoded by this gene is a component of the GATOR1 (GAP activity toward Rags) complex which inhibits the amino acid-sensing branch of the mTORC1 pathway. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal dominant familial focal epilepsy with variable foci. A single nucleotide polymorphism in an intron of this gene has been associated with an increased risk of hepatocellular carcinoma in individuals with chronic hepatitis C virus infection. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2014]	DEPDC5 (DEP Domain Containing 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DEPDC5 include epilepsy, familial focal, with variable foci and benign epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes. GO annotations related to this gene include GTPase activator activity.	As a component of the GATOR1 complex, inhibitor of the amino acid-sensing branch of the TORC1 pathway. The GATOR1 complex strongly increases GTP hydrolysis by RRAGA and RRAGB within RRAGC-containing heterodimers, thereby deactivating RRAGs, releasing mTORC1 from lysosomal surface and inhibiting mTORC1 signaling.	same
DEPDC6	empty	DEPTOR (DEP Domain Containing MTOR-Interacting Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Akt Signaling Pathway and Development HGF signaling pathway.	Negative regulator of the mTORC1 and mTORC2 signaling pathways. Inhibits the kinase activity of both complexes.	diff
DERA	empty	DERA (Deoxyribose-Phosphate Aldolase (Putative)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DERA include phlebotomus fever and tick infestation. Among its related pathways are Pentose phosphate pathway (KEGG). GO annotations related to this gene include deoxyribose-phosphate aldolase activity.	Catalyzes a reversible aldol reaction between acetaldehyde and D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate to generate 2-deoxy-D-ribose 5-phosphate. Participates in stress granule (SG) assembly. May allow ATP production from extracellular deoxyinosine in conditions of energy deprivation.	same
DERL3	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the derlin family, and resides in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Proteins that are unfolded or misfolded in the ER must be refolded or degraded to maintain the homeostasis of the ER. This protein appears to be involved in the degradation of misfolded glycoproteins in the ER. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]	DERL3 (Derlin 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Protein processing in endoplasmic reticulum. An important paralog of this gene is DERL1.	Functional component of endoplasmic reticulum-associated degradation (ERAD) for misfolded lumenal glycoproteins, but not that of misfolded nonglycoproteins. May act by forming a channel that allows the retrotranslocation of misfolded glycoproteins into the cytosol where they are ubiquitinated and degraded by the proteasome. May mediate the interaction between VCP and the degradation substrate.	same
DERL2	Proteins that are unfolded or misfolded in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) must be refolded or degraded to maintain the homeostasis of the ER. DERL2 is involved in the degradation of misfolded glycoproteins in the ER (Oda et al., 2006 [PubMed 16449189]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	DERL2 (Derlin 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Protein processing in endoplasmic reticulum. An important paralog of this gene is DERL3.	Functional component of endoplasmic reticulum-associated degradation (ERAD) for misfolded lumenal glycoproteins, but not that of misfolded nonglycoproteins. May act by forming a channel that allows the retrotranslocation of misfolded glycoproteins into the cytosol where they are ubiquitinated and degraded by the proteasome. May mediate the interaction between VCP and the degradation substrate. In contrast to DERL1, it is not involved in the degradation of MHC class I heavy chains following infection by cytomegaloviruses. May play a role in cell proliferation.	same
DET1	empty	DET1 (De-Etiolated Homolog 1 (Arabidopsis)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation and Class I MHC mediated antigen processing and presentation.	Component of the E3 ubiquitin ligase DCX DET1-COP1 complex, which is required for ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of target proteins. The complex is involved in JUN ubiquitination and degradation.	same
DERL1	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the derlin family. Members of this family participate in the ER-associated degradation response and retrotranslocate misfolded or unfolded proteins from the ER lumen to the cytosol for proteasomal degradation. This protein recognizes substrate in the ER and works in a complex to retrotranslocate it across the ER membrane into the cytosol. This protein may select cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator protein (CFTR) for degradation as well as unfolded proteins in Alzheimer's disease. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012]	DERL1 (Derlin 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DERL1 include cavernous hemangioma and cystic fibrosis. Among its related pathways are Translational Control and Protein Stability. GO annotations related to this gene include receptor activity and MHC class I protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is DERL3.	Functional component of endoplasmic reticulum-associated degradation (ERAD) for misfolded lumenal proteins. May act by forming a channel that allows the retrotranslocation of misfolded proteins into the cytosol where they are ubiquitinated and degraded by the proteasome. May mediate the interaction between VCP and the degradation substrate. In case of infection by cytomegaloviruses, it plays a central role in the export from the ER and subsequent degradation of MHC class I heavy chains via its interaction with US11 viral protein, which recognizes and associates with MHC class I heavy chains. Also participates in the degradation process of misfolded cytomegalovirus US2 protein.	same
DENND5A	empty	DENND5A (DENN/MADD Domain Containing 5A) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium channel activity and Rab guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is DENND2C.	Guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) which may activate RAB6A and RAB39A and/or RAB39B. Promotes the exchange of GDP to GTP, converting inactive GDP-bound Rab proteins into their active GTP-bound form.	same
DES	This gene encodes a muscle-specific class III intermediate filament. Homopolymers of this protein form a stable intracytoplasmic filamentous network connecting myofibrils to each other and to the plasma membrane. Mutations in this gene are associated with desmin-related myopathy, a familial cardiac and skeletal myopathy (CSM), and with distal myopathies. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DES (Desmin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DES include myopathy, myofibrillar, 1 and cardiomyopathy, dilated, 1i. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and Cytoskeletal Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and cytoskeletal protein binding. An important paralog of this gene is LMNB2.	Desmin are class-III intermediate filaments found in muscle cells. In adult striated muscle they form a fibrous network connecting myofibrils to each other and to the plasma membrane from the periphery of the Z-line structures.	same
DENND5B	empty	DENND5B (DENN/MADD Domain Containing 5B) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium channel activity and Rab guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity. An important paralog of this gene is DENND2C.	Guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) which may activate RAB39A and/or RAB39B. Promotes the exchange of GDP to GTP, converting inactive GDP-bound Rab proteins into their active GTP-bound form.	same
DFFB	Apoptosis is a cell death process that removes toxic and/or useless cells during mammalian development. The apoptotic process is accompanied by shrinkage and fragmentation of the cells and nuclei and degradation of the chromosomal DNA into nucleosomal units. DNA fragmentation factor (DFF) is a heterodimeric protein of 40-kD (DFFB) and 45-kD (DFFA) subunits. DFFA is the substrate for caspase-3 and triggers DNA fragmentation during apoptosis. DFF becomes activated when DFFA is cleaved by caspase-3. The cleaved fragments of DFFA dissociate from DFFB, the active component of DFF. DFFB has been found to trigger both DNA fragmentation and chromatin condensation during apoptosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene but the biological validity of some of these variants has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2013]	DFFB (DNA Fragmentation Factor, 40kDa, Beta Polypeptide (Caspase-Activated DNase)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Integrated Pancreatic Cancer Pathway and Cell Cycle / Checkpoint Control. GO annotations related to this gene include enzyme binding and nicotinate phosphoribosyltransferase activity.	Nuclease that induces DNA fragmentation and chromatin condensation during apoptosis. Degrades naked DNA and induces apoptotic morphology	same
DEPDC7	empty	DEPDC7 (DEP Domain Containing 7) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Rho GTPase cycle. An important paralog of this gene is DEPDC1B.	empty	same
DFFA	Apoptosis is a cell death process that removes toxic and/or useless cells during mammalian development. The apoptotic process is accompanied by shrinkage and fragmentation of the cells and nuclei and degradation of the chromosomal DNA into nucleosomal units. DNA fragmentation factor (DFF) is a heterodimeric protein of 40-kD (DFFB) and 45-kD (DFFA) subunits. DFFA is the substrate for caspase-3 and triggers DNA fragmentation during apoptosis. DFF becomes activated when DFFA is cleaved by caspase-3. The cleaved fragments of DFFA dissociate from DFFB, the active component of DFF. DFFB has been found to trigger both DNA fragmentation and chromatin condensation during apoptosis. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DFFA (DNA Fragmentation Factor, 45kDa, Alpha Polypeptide) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Apoptotic Pathways in Synovial Fibroblasts and Integrated Pancreatic Cancer Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include deoxyribonuclease activity.	Inhibitor of the caspase-activated DNase (DFF40)	same
DFNB59	The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the gasdermin family, a family which is found only in vertebrates. The encoded protein is required for the proper function of auditory pathway neurons. Defects in this gene are a cause of non-syndromic sensorineural deafness autosomal recessive type 59 (DFNB59). [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008]	DFNB59 (Deafness, Autosomal Recessive 59) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DFNB59 include deafness, autosomal recessive 59 and dfnb59 nonsyndromic hearing loss and deafness. An important paralog of this gene is DFNA5.	Essential in the activity of auditory pathway neurons	same
DEXI	empty	DEXI (Dexi Homolog (Mouse)) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
DFNB31	This gene is thought to function in the organization and stabilization of sterocilia elongation and actin cystoskeletal assembly, based on studies of the related mouse gene. Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness and Usher Syndrome. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010]	DFNB31 (Deafness, Autosomal Recessive 31) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DFNB31 include deafness, autosomal recessive 31 and usher syndrome, type 2d. An important paralog of this gene is USH1C.	Necessary for elongation and maintenance of inner and outer hair cell stereocilia in the organ of Corti in the inner ear.	same
DGAT1	This gene encodes an multipass transmembrane protein that functions as a key metabolic enzyme. The encoded protein catalyzes the conversion of diacylglycerol and fatty acyl CoA to triacylglycerol. This enzyme can also transfer acyl CoA to retinol. Activity of this protein may be associated with obesity and other metabolic diseases. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013]	DGAT1 (Diacylglycerol O-Acyltransferase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DGAT1 include diarrhea 7 and congenital chronic diarrhea with protein-losing enteropathy. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include transferase activity, transferring acyl groups and retinol O-fatty-acyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is SOAT2.	Catalyzes the terminal and only committed step in triacylglycerol synthesis by using diacylglycerol and fatty acyl CoA as substrates. In contrast to DGAT2 it is not essential for survival. May be involved in VLDL (very low density lipoprotein) assembly. In liver, plays a role in esterifying exogenous fatty acids to glycerol. Functions as the major acyl-CoA retinol acyltransferase (ARAT) in the skin, where it acts to maintain retinoid homeostasis and prevent retinoid toxicity leading to skin and hair disorders.	same
DGCR11	empty	DGCR11 (DiGeorge Syndrome Critical Region Gene 11 (Non-Protein Coding)) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class. Diseases associated with DGCR11 include digeorge syndrome.	empty	same
DGAT2L6	This gene is a member of the diacylglycerol acyltransferase 2 family. The encoded protein is a putative acyltransferase and is most likely involved in the synthesis of di- or triacylglycerol, however its substrate specificity is currently unknown. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2015]	DGAT2L6 (Diacylglycerol O-Acyltransferase 2-Like 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DGAT2L6 include tropical sprue. GO annotations related to this gene include transferase activity, transferring acyl groups other than amino-acyl groups. An important paralog of this gene is MOGAT2.	Probable acyltransferase uses fatty acyl-CoA as substrate (By similarity). Has no wax synthase activity to produce wax esters.	same
DGCR10	empty	DGCR10 (DiGeorge Syndrome Critical Region Gene 10 (Non-Protein Coding)) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class. Diseases associated with DGCR10 include digeorge syndrome.	empty	same
DEPDC4	empty	DEPDC4 (DEP Domain Containing 4) is a Protein Coding gene. An important paralog of this gene is DEPDC1B.	empty	same
DGAT2	This gene encodes one of two enzymes which catalyzes the final reaction in the synthesis of triglycerides in which diacylglycerol is covalently bound to long chain fatty acyl-CoAs. The encoded protein catalyzes this reaction at low concentrations of magnesium chloride while the other enzyme has high activity at high concentrations of magnesium chloride. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011]	DGAT2 (Diacylglycerol O-Acyltransferase 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and diacylglycerol O-acyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is MOGAT2.	Essential acyltransferase that catalyzes the terminal and only committed step in triacylglycerol synthesis by using diacylglycerol and fatty acyl CoA as substrates. Required for synthesis and storage of intracellular triglycerides. Probably plays a central role in cytosolic lipid accumulation. In liver, is primarily responsible for incorporating endogenously synthesized fatty acids into triglycerides (By similarity). Functions also as an acyl-CoA retinol acyltransferase (ARAT).	same
CSNK1A1L	empty	CSNK1A1L (Casein Kinase 1, Alpha 1-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with CSNK1A1L include sleep disorder and angina pectoris. Among its related pathways are Wnt signaling pathway (KEGG) and Translation Insulin regulation of translation. GO annotations related to this gene include protein serine/threonine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is CSNK1G2.	Casein kinases are operationally defined by their preferential utilization of acidic proteins such as caseins as substrates. It can phosphorylate a large number of proteins. Participates in Wnt signaling (By similarity).	same
DGCR14	This gene is located within the minimal DGS critical region (MDGCR) thought to contain the gene(s) responsible for a group of developmental disorders. These disorders include DiGeorge syndrome, velocardiofacial syndrome, conotruncal anomaly face syndrome, and some familial or sporadic conotruncal cardiac defects which have been associated with microdeletion of 22q11.2. The encoded protein may be a component of C complex spliceosomes, and the orthologous protein in the mouse localizes to the nucleus. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DGCR14 (DiGeorge Syndrome Critical Region Gene 14) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DGCR14 include digeorge syndrome and velocardiofacial syndrome.	May be involved in pre-mRNA splicing	same
DGCR5	empty	DGCR5 (DiGeorge Syndrome Critical Region Gene 5 (Non-Protein Coding)) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class.	empty	same
DGCR2	Deletions of the 22q11.2 have been associated with a wide range of developmental defects (notably DiGeorge syndrome, velocardiofacial syndrome, conotruncal anomaly face syndrome and isolated conotruncal cardiac defects) classified under the acronym CATCH 22. The DGCR2 gene encodes a novel putative adhesion receptor protein, which could play a role in neural crest cells migration, a process which has been proposed to be altered in DiGeorge syndrome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	DGCR2 (DiGeorge Syndrome Critical Region Gene 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DGCR2 include digeorge syndrome and velocardiofacial syndrome. GO annotations related to this gene include carbohydrate binding.	Putative adhesion receptor, that could be involved in cell-cell or cell-matrix interactions required for normal cell differentiation and migration	same
DGCR9	empty	DGCR9 (DiGeorge Syndrome Critical Region Gene 9 (Non-Protein Coding)) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	same
DGCR6	DiGeorge syndrome, and more widely, the CATCH 22 syndrome, are associated with microdeletions in chromosomal region 22q11.2. The product of this gene shares homology with the Drosophila melanogaster gonadal protein, which participates in gonadal and germ cell development, and with the gamma-1 subunit of human laminin. This gene is a candidate for involvement in DiGeorge syndrome pathology and in schizophrenia. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]	DGCR6 (DiGeorge Syndrome Critical Region Gene 6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DGCR6 include digeorge syndrome and schizophrenia. An important paralog of this gene is DGCR6L.	May play a role in neural crest cell migration into the third and fourth pharyngeal pouches	same
DGCR6L	This gene, the result of a duplication at this locus, is one of two functional genes encoding nearly identical proteins that have similar expression patterns. The product of this gene is a protein that shares homology with the Drosophila gonadal protein, expressed in gonadal tissues and germ cells, and with the human laminin gamma-1 chain that functions in cell attachment and migration. This gene is located in a region of chromosome 22 implicated in the DiGeorge syndrome, one facet of a broader collection of anomalies referred to as the CATCH 22 syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DGCR6L (DiGeorge Syndrome Critical Region Gene 6-Like) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DGCR6L include digeorge syndrome. An important paralog of this gene is DGCR6.	May play a role in neural crest cell migration into the third and fourth pharyngeal pouches	same
DGCR8	This gene encodes a subunit of the microprocessor complex which mediates the biogenesis of microRNAs from the primary microRNA transcript. The encoded protein is a double-stranded RNA binding protein that functions as the non-catalytic subunit of the microprocessor complex. This protein is required for binding the double-stranded RNA substrate and facilitates cleavage of the RNA by the ribonuclease III protein, Drosha. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	DGCR8 (DGCR8 Microprocessor Complex Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DGCR8 include digeorge syndrome. Among its related pathways are Translational Control and Gene Expression. GO annotations related to this gene include double-stranded RNA binding.	Component of the microprocessor complex that acts as a RNA- and heme-binding protein that is involved in the initial step of microRNA (miRNA) biogenesis. Component of the microprocessor complex that is required to process primary miRNA transcripts (pri-miRNAs) to release precursor miRNA (pre-miRNA) in the nucleus. Within the microprocessor complex, DGCR8 function as a molecular anchor necessary for the recognition of pri-miRNA at dsRNA-ssRNA junction and directs DROSHA to cleave 11 bp away form the junction to release hairpin-shaped pre-miRNAs that are subsequently cut by the cytoplasmic DICER to generate mature miRNAs. The heme-bound DGCR8 dimer binds pri-miRNAs as a cooperative trimer (of dimers) and is active in triggering pri-miRNA cleavage, whereas the heme-free DGCR8 monomer binds pri-miRNAs as a dimer and is much less active. Both double-stranded and single-stranded regions of a pri-miRNA are required for its binding. Involved in the silencing of embryonic stem cells self-renewal.	same
DFNA5	Hearing impairment is a heterogeneous condition with over 40 loci described. The protein encoded by this gene is expressed in fetal cochlea, however, its function is not known. Nonsyndromic hearing impairment is associated with a mutation in this gene. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DFNA5 (Deafness, Autosomal Dominant 5) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DFNA5 include deafness, autosomal dominant 5 and dfna 5 nonsyndromic hearing loss and deafness. An important paralog of this gene is DFNB59.	Involved in apoptosis and cell survival. Plays a role in the TP53-regulated cellular response to DNA damage probably by cooperating with TP53.	same
DGKG	This gene encodes an enzyme that is a member of the type I subfamily of diacylglycerol kinases, which are involved in lipid metabolism. These enzymes generate phosphatidic acid by catalyzing the phosphorylation of diacylglycerol, a fundamental lipid second messenger that activates numerous proteins, including protein kinase C isoforms, Ras guanyl nucleotide-releasing proteins and some transient receptor potential channels. Diacylglycerol kinase gamma has been implicated in cell cycle regulation and in the negative regulation of macrophage differentiation in leukemia cells. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DGKG (Diacylglycerol Kinase, Gamma 90kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and diacylglycerol kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DGKI.	Reverses the normal flow of glycerolipid biosynthesis by phosphorylating diacylglycerol back to phosphatidic acid	same
DGKD	This gene encodes a cytoplasmic enzyme that phosphorylates diacylglycerol to produce phosphatidic acid. Diacylglycerol and phosphatidic acid are two lipids that act as second messengers in signaling cascades. Their cellular concentrations are regulated by the encoded protein, and so it is thought to play an important role in cellular signal transduction. Alternative splicing results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DGKD (Diacylglycerol Kinase, Delta 130kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is DGKI.	May function as signaling molecule.	same
DGKE	Diacylglycerol kinases are thought to be involved mainly in the regeneration of phosphatidylinositol (PI) from diacylglycerol in the PI-cycle during cell signal transduction. When expressed in mammalian cells, DGK-epsilon shows specificity for arachidonyl-containing diacylglycerol. DGK-epsilon is expressed predominantly in testis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DGKE (Diacylglycerol Kinase, Epsilon 64kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DGKE include nephrotic syndrome, type 7 and immunoglobulin-mediated membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include NAD+ kinase activity and diacylglycerol kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DGKI.	Highly selective for arachidonate-containing species of diacylglycerol (DAG). May terminate signals transmitted through arachidonoyl-DAG or may contribute to the synthesis of phospholipids with defined fatty acid composition	same
DGKQ	The protein encoded by this gene contains three cysteine-rich domains, a proline-rich region, and a pleckstrin homology domain with an overlapping Ras-associating domain. It is localized in the speckle domains of the nucleus, and mediates the regeneration of phosphatidylinositol (PI) from diacylglycerol in the PI-cycle during cell signal transduction. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DGKQ (Diacylglycerol Kinase, Theta 110kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include kinase binding and NAD+ kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DGKI.	Phosphorylates diacylglycerol (DAG) to generate phosphatidic acid (PA). May regulate the activity of protein kinase C by controlling the balance between these two signaling lipids. Activated in the nucleus in response to alpha-thrombin and nerve growth factor (By similarity). May be involved in cAMP-induced activation of NR5A1 and subsequent steroidogenic gene transcription by delivering PA as ligand for NR5A1. Acts synergistically with NR5A1 on CYP17 transcriptional activity.	same
DGKI	This gene is a member of the type IV diacylglycerol kinase subfamily. Diacylglycerol kinases regulate the intracellular concentration of diacylglycerol through its phosphorylation, producing phosphatidic acid. The specific role of the enzyme encoded by this gene is undetermined, however, it may play a crucial role in the production of phosphatidic acid in the retina or in recessive forms of retinal degeneration. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DGKI (Diacylglycerol Kinase, Iota) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include NAD+ kinase activity and GTPase inhibitor activity. An important paralog of this gene is DGKH.	Diacylglycerol kinases (DGKs) are a group of ten enzymes (DGKalpha, DGKbeta, DGKgamma, DGKdelta, DGKepsilon, DGKzeta, DGKeta, DGKtheta, DGKiota and DGKkappa) that metabolize 1,2,diacylglycerol (DAG) to produce phosphatidic acid (PA). They all contain a conserved C'-terminal catalytic domain, two cysteine-rich Zn2+-finger motifs that bind DAG and an ATP-binding site, whilst the regulatory domain varies. DGKs are widely distributed throughout mammalian tissues and different isozymes have different subcellular localizations; some are cytosolic (for example DGKalpha), some are membrane-bound (for example DGKgamma is associated with the Golgi membrane) and some are nuclear (for example DGKzeta. DGKs have diverse biological roles as they participate in signal transduction by modulating levels of DAG in a variety of cellular responses to extracellular stimuli.	same
DGKK	The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme that phosphorylates diacylglycerol, converting it to phosphatidic acid. The encoded protein is a membrane protein and is inhibited by hydrogen peroxide. Variations in this gene have been associated with hypospadias. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011]	DGKK (Diacylglycerol Kinase, Kappa) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and diacylglycerol kinase activity.	Phosphorylates diacylglycerol (DAG) to generate phosphatidic acid (PA).	same
DGKZ	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the eukaryotic diacylglycerol kinase family. It may attenuate protein kinase C activity by regulating diacylglycerol levels in intracellular signaling cascade and signal transduction. Alternative splicing occurs at this locus and multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]	DGKZ (Diacylglycerol Kinase, Zeta) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and p70S6K Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include protein C-terminus binding and NAD+ kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DGKI.	Displays a strong preference for 1,2-diacylglycerols over 1,3-diacylglycerols, but lacks substrate specificity among molecular species of long chain diacylglycerols. Isoform 2 but not isoform 1 regulates RASGRP1 activity.	same
DGUOK	In mammalian cells, the phosphorylation of purine deoxyribonucleosides is mediated predominantly by two deoxyribonucleoside kinases, cytosolic deoxycytidine kinase and mitochondrial deoxyguanosine kinase. The protein encoded by this gene is responsible for phosphorylation of purine deoxyribonucleosides in the mitochondrial matrix. In addition, this protein phosphorylates several purine deoxyribonucleoside analogs used in the treatment of lymphoproliferative disorders, and this phosphorylation is critical for the effectiveness of the analogs. Alternative splice variants encoding different protein isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DGUOK (Deoxyguanosine Kinase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DGUOK include mitochondrial dna depletion syndrome 3 and dguok-related mitochondrial dna depletion syndrome, hepatocerebral form. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include phosphotransferase activity, alcohol group as acceptor and deoxyguanosine kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is TK2.	Required for the phosphorylation of several deoxyribonucleosides and certain nucleoside analogs widely employed as antiviral and chemotherapeutic agents.	same
DHCR7	This gene encodes an enzyme that removes the C(7-8) double bond in the B ring of sterols and catalyzes the conversion of 7-dehydrocholesterol to cholesterol. This gene is ubiquitously expressed and its transmembrane protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum membrane and nuclear outer membrane. Mutations in this gene cause Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome (SLOS); a syndrome that is metabolically characterized by reduced serum cholesterol levels and elevated serum 7-dehydrocholesterol levels and phenotypically characterized by mental retardation, facial dysmorphism, syndactyly of second and third toes, and holoprosencephaly in severe cases to minimal physical abnormalities and near-normal intelligence in mild cases. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2009]	DHCR7 (7-Dehydrocholesterol Reductase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DHCR7 include smith-lemli-opitz syndrome and sost-related sclerosing bone dysplasia. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include 7-dehydrocholesterol reductase activity. An important paralog of this gene is TM7SF2.	Production of cholesterol by reduction of C7-C8 double bond of 7-dehydrocholesterol (7-DHC)	same
DHDDS	The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes cis-prenyl chain elongation to produce the polyprenyl backbone of dolichol, a glycosyl carrier lipid required for the biosynthesis of several classes of glycoproteins. Mutations in this gene are associated with retinitis pigmentosa type 59. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	DHDDS (Dehydrodolichyl Diphosphate Synthase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DHDDS include retinitis pigmentosa 59 and dhdds-related retinitis pigmentosa. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and Actin Nucleation by ARP-WASP Complex. GO annotations related to this gene include transferase activity, transferring alkyl or aryl (other than methyl) groups.	With DHDDS, forms the dehydrodolichyl diphosphate syntase (DDS) complex, an essential component of the dolichol monophosphate (Dol-P) biosynthetic machinery. Adds multiple copies of isopentenyl pyrophosphate (IPP) to farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP) to produce dehydrodolichyl diphosphate (Dedol-PP), a precusrosor of dolichol which is utilized as a sugar carrier in protein glycosylation in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Regulates the glycosylation and stability of nascent NPC2, thereby promoting trafficking of LDL-derived cholesterol.	same
DHFRL1	empty	DHFRL1 (Dihydrofolate Reductase-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DHFRL1 include intrinsic factor deficiency and methylmalonic aciduria and homocystinuria type cblg. Among its related pathways are Disease and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include mRNA binding and dihydrofolate reductase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DHFR.	Key enzyme in folate metabolism. Contributes to the de novo mitochondrial thymidylate biosynthesis pathway. Required to prevent uracil accumulation in mtDNA. Binds its own mRNA and that of DHFR.	same
DHDPSL	The authors of PMID:20797690 cloned this gene while searching for genes in a region of chromosome 10 linked to primary hyperoxalurea type III. They noted that even though the encoded protein has been described as a mitochondrial dihydrodipicolinate synthase-like enzyme, it shares little homology with E. coli dihydrodipicolinate synthase (Dhdps), particularly in the putative substrate-binding region. Moreover, neither lysine biosynthesis nor sialic acid metabolism, for which Dhdps is responsible, occurs in vertebrate mitochondria. They propose that this gene encodes mitochondrial 4-hydroxyl-2-oxoglutarate aldolase (EC 4.1.3.16), which catalyzes the final step in the metabolic pathway of hydroxyproline, releasing glyoxylate and pyruvate. This gene is predominantly expressed in the liver and kidney, and mutations in this gene are found in patients with primary hyperoxalurea type III. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010]	HOGA1 (4-Hydroxy-2-Oxoglutarate Aldolase 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with HOGA1 include hyperoxaluria, primary, type iii and primary hyperoxaluria. Among its related pathways are Arginine and proline metabolism and Glyoxylate and dicarboxylate metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include protein homodimerization activity and 4-hydroxy-2-oxoglutarate aldolase activity. An important paralog of this gene is NPL.	Catalyzes the final step in the metabolic pathway of hydroxyproline.	diff
DHDH	This gene encodes an enzyme that belongs to the family of dihydrodiol dehydrogenases, which exist in multiple forms in mammalian tissues and are involved in the metabolism of xenobiotics and sugars. These enzymes catalyze the NADP1-linked oxidation of transdihydrodiols of aromatic hydrocarbons to corresponding catechols. This enzyme is a dimeric dihydrodiol dehydrogenase, and it differs from monomeric dihydrodiol dehydrogenases in its high substrate specificity for trans-dihydrodiols of aromatic hydrocarbons in the oxidative direction. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DHDH (Dihydrodiol Dehydrogenase (Dimeric)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DHDH include lung cancer. Among its related pathways are Glucuronidation and Chemical carcinogenesis. GO annotations related to this gene include electron carrier activity and NAD(P)+ transhydrogenase activity.	empty	same
DHCR24	This gene encodes a flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD)-dependent oxidoreductase which catalyzes the reduction of the delta-24 double bond of sterol intermediates during cholesterol biosynthesis. The protein contains a leader sequence that directs it to the endoplasmic reticulum membrane. Missense mutations in this gene have been associated with desmosterolosis. Also, reduced expression of the gene occurs in the temporal cortex of Alzheimer disease patients and overexpression has been observed in adrenal gland cancer cells. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DHCR24 (24-Dehydrocholesterol Reductase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DHCR24 include desmosterolosis and alzheimer disease. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include enzyme binding and peptide antigen binding.	Catalyzes the reduction of the delta-24 double bond of sterol intermediates. Protects cells from oxidative stress by reducing caspase 3 activity during apoptosis induced by oxidative stress. Also protects against amyloid-beta peptide-induced apoptosis.	same
DHODH	The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the fourth enzymatic step, the ubiquinone-mediated oxidation of dihydroorotate to orotate, in de novo pyrimidine biosynthesis. This protein is a mitochondrial protein located on the outer surface of the inner mitochondrial membrane. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DHODH (Dihydroorotate Dehydrogenase (Quinone)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DHODH include miller syndrome and supernumerary nipples. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include drug binding and ubiquinone binding.	Catalyzes the conversion of dihydroorotate to orotate with quinone as electron acceptor	same
DHRS1	This gene encodes a member of the short-chain dehydrogenases/reductases (SDR) family. The encoded enzyme contains a conserved catalytic domain and likely functions as an oxidoreductase. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008]	DHRS1 (Dehydrogenase/Reductase (SDR Family) Member 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include oxidoreductase activity.	empty	same
DHFR	Dihydrofolate reductase converts dihydrofolate into tetrahydrofolate, a methyl group shuttle required for the de novo synthesis of purines, thymidylic acid, and certain amino acids. While the functional dihydrofolate reductase gene has been mapped to chromosome 5, multiple intronless processed pseudogenes or dihydrofolate reductase-like genes have been identified on separate chromosomes. Dihydrofolate reductase deficiency has been linked to megaloblastic anemia. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2014]	DHFR (Dihydrofolate Reductase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DHFR include megaloblastic anemia due to dihydrofolate reductase deficiency and pneumocystosis. Among its related pathways are Disease and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. An important paralog of this gene is DHFRL1.	Key enzyme in folate metabolism. Contributes to the de novo mitochondrial thymidylate biosynthesis pathway. Catalyzes an essential reaction for de novo glycine and purine synthesis, and for DNA precursor synthesis. Binds its own mRNA and that of DHFRL1.	same
DHRS2	empty	DHRS2 (Dehydrogenase/Reductase (SDR Family) Member 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include carbonyl reductase (NADPH) activity. An important paralog of this gene is DECR2.	Displays NADPH-dependent dicarbonyl reductase activity in vitro with 3,4-Hexanedione, 2,3-Heptanedione and 1-Phenyl-1,2-propanedione as substrates. No reductase activity is displayed in vitro with steroids, retinoids and sugars as substrates. Attenuates MDM2-mediated p53/TP53 degradation, leading to p53/TP53 stabilization and increased transcription activity, resulting in the accumulation of MDM2 and CDKN1A/p21.	same
DHRS11	empty	DHRS11 (Dehydrogenase/Reductase (SDR Family) Member 11) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include oxidoreductase activity.	empty	same
DHRS12	This gene encodes a member of the short-chain dehydrogenases/reductases (SDR) family, which has over 46,000 members. Members in this family are enzymes that metabolize many different compounds, such as steroid hormones, prostaglandins, retinoids, lipids and xenobiotics. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants and protein isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012]	DHRS12 (Dehydrogenase/Reductase (SDR Family) Member 12) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include oxidoreductase activity. An important paralog of this gene is ENSG00000258466.	Putative oxidoreductase.	same
DHRS13	empty	DHRS13 (Dehydrogenase/Reductase (SDR Family) Member 13) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include oxidoreductase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DHRS12.	Putative oxidoreductase.	same
DGKA	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the eukaryotic diacylglycerol kinase family. It acts as a modulator that competes with protein kinase C for the second messenger diacylglycerol in intracellular signaling pathways. It also plays an important role in the resynthesis of phosphatidylinositols and phosphorylating diacylglycerol to phosphatidic acid. Alternative splicing occurs at this locus and four transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DGKA (Diacylglycerol Kinase, Alpha 80kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and NAD+ kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DGKI.	Upon cell stimulation converts the second messenger diacylglycerol into phosphatidate, initiating the resynthesis of phosphatidylinositols and attenuating protein kinase C activity	same
DGKH	This gene encodes a member of the diacylglycerol kinase (DGK) enzyme family. Members of this family are involved in regulating intracellular concentrations of diacylglycerol and phosphatidic acid. Variation in this gene has been associated with bipolar disorder. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014]	DGKH (Diacylglycerol Kinase, Eta) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include phospholipid binding and diacylglycerol kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DGKI.	Phosphorylates diacylglycerol (DAG) to generate phosphatidic acid (PA). Plays a key role in promoting cell growth. Activates the Ras/B-Raf/C-Raf/MEK/ERK signaling pathway induced by EGF. Regulates the recruitment of RAF1 and BRAF from cytoplasm to membranes and their heterodimerization.	same
DGKB	Diacylglycerol kinases (DGKs) are regulators of the intracellular concentration of the second messenger diacylglycerol (DAG) and thus play a key role in cellular processes. Nine mammalian isotypes have been identified, which are encoded by separate genes. Mammalian DGK isozymes contain a conserved catalytic (kinase) domain and a cysteine-rich domain (CRD). The protein encoded by this gene is a diacylglycerol kinase, beta isotype. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DGKB (Diacylglycerol Kinase, Beta 90kDa) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and diacylglycerol kinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DGKI.	Exhibits high phosphorylation activity for long-chain diacylglycerols.	same
DHRS4L1	empty	DHRS4L1 (Dehydrogenase/Reductase (SDR Family) Member 4 Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Peroxisome. GO annotations related to this gene include oxidoreductase activity.	Putative oxidoreductase.	same
DHRS7B	This gene is located within the Smith-Magenis syndrome region on chromosome 17. It encodes a protein of unknown function. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DHRS7B (Dehydrogenase/Reductase (SDR Family) Member 7B) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include oxidoreductase activity. An important paralog of this gene is HSD11B2.	Putative oxidoreductase.	same
DHRS3	Short-chain dehydrogenases/reductases (SDRs), such as DHRS3, catalyze the oxidation/reduction of a wide range of substrates, including retinoids and steroids (Haeseleer and Palczewski, 2000 [PubMed 10800688]).[supplied by OMIM, Jun 2009]	DHRS3 (Dehydrogenase/Reductase (SDR Family) Member 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleotide binding and NADP-retinol dehydrogenase activity. An important paralog of this gene is RDH10.	Catalyzes the reduction of all-trans-retinal to all-trans-retinol in the presence of NADPH.	same
DHH	This gene encodes a member of the hedgehog family. The hedgehog gene family encodes signaling molecules that play an important role in regulating morphogenesis. This protein is predicted to be made as a precursor that is autocatalytically cleaved; the N-terminal portion is soluble and contains the signalling activity while the C-terminal portion is involved in precursor processing. More importantly, the C-terminal product covalently attaches a cholesterol moiety to the N-terminal product, restricting the N-terminal product to the cell surface and preventing it from freely diffusing throughout the organism. Defects in this protein have been associated with partial gonadal dysgenesis (PGD) accompanied by minifascicular polyneuropathy. This protein may be involved in both male gonadal differentiation and perineurial development. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010]	DHH (Desert Hedgehog) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DHH include 46xy partial gonadal dysgenesis, with minifascicular neuropathy and 46xy sex reversal 7. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and patched binding. An important paralog of this gene is SHH.	Intercellular signal essential for a variety of patterning events during development. May function as a spermatocyte survival factor in the testes. Essential for testes development	same
DHPS	This gene encodes a protein that is required for the formation of hypusine, a unique amino acid formed by the posttranslational modification of only one protein, eukaryotic translation initiation factor 5A. The encoded protein catalyzes the first step in hypusine formation by transferring the butylamine moiety of spermidine to a specific lysine residue of the eukaryotic translation initiation factor 5A precursor, forming an intermediate deoxyhypusine residue. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011]	DHPS (Deoxyhypusine Synthase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DHPS include whipple disease and pneumocystosis. Among its related pathways are PTM- gamma carboxylation, hypusine formation and arylsulfatase activation and Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein. GO annotations related to this gene include deoxyhypusine synthase activity.	Catalyzes the NAD-dependent oxidative cleavage of spermidine and the subsequent transfer of the butylamine moiety of spermidine to the epsilon-amino group of a specific lysine residue of the eIF-5A precursor protein to form the intermediate deoxyhypusine residue	same
DHTKD1	This gene encodes a component of a mitochondrial 2-oxoglutarate-dehydrogenase-complex-like protein involved in the degradation pathways of several amino acids, including lysine. Mutations in this gene are associated with 2-aminoadipic 2-oxoadipic aciduria and Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease Type 2Q. [provided by RefSeq, May 2013]	DHTKD1 (Dehydrogenase E1 And Transketolase Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DHTKD1 include charcot-marie-tooth disease, axonal, type 2q and 2-aminoadipic 2-oxoadipic aciduria. Among its related pathways are Integrated Breast Cancer Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include thiamine pyrophosphate binding and oxoglutarate dehydrogenase (succinyl-transferring) activity. An important paralog of this gene is OGDH.	The 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase complex catalyzes the overall conversion of 2-oxoglutarate to succinyl-CoA and CO(2). It contains multiple copies of three enzymatic components: 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase (E1), dihydrolipoamide succinyltransferase (E2) and lipoamide dehydrogenase (E3) (By similarity).	same
DHRSX	empty	DHRSX (Dehydrogenase/Reductase (SDR Family) X-Linked) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include oxidoreductase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DHRS12.	empty	same
DHRS7	Short-chain dehydrogenases/reductases (SDRs), such as DHRS7, catalyze the oxidation/reduction of a wide range of substrates, including retinoids and steroids (Haeseleer and Palczewski, 2000 [PubMed 10800688]).[supplied by OMIM, Jun 2009]	DHRS7 (Dehydrogenase/Reductase (SDR Family) Member 7) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include oxidoreductase activity. An important paralog of this gene is HSD11B2.	empty	same
DHX15	The protein encoded by this gene is a putative ATP-dependent RNA helicase implicated in pre-mRNA splicing. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DHX15 (DEAH (Asp-Glu-Ala-His) Box Helicase 15) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleic acid binding and RNA helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DHX35.	Pre-mRNA processing factor involved in disassembly of spliceosomes after the release of mature mRNA. In cooperation with TFIP11 seem to be involved in the transition of the U2, U5 and U6 snRNP-containing IL complex to the snRNP-free IS complex leading to efficient debranching and turnover of excised introns.	same
DHX33	This gene encodes a member of the DEAD box protein family. The DEAD box proteins are characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of this DEAD box protein family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010]	DHX33 (DEAH (Asp-Glu-Ala-His) Box Polypeptide 33) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include ATP-dependent helicase activity and rDNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is DHX35.	Stimulates RNA polymerase I transcription of the 47S precursor rRNA. Associates with ribosomal DNA (rDNA) loci where it is involved in POLR1A recruitment. Important element of nucleolar organization.	same
DHX16	DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of this family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. This gene encodes a DEAD box protein, which is a functional homolog of fission yeast Prp8 protein involved in cell cycle progression. This gene is mapped to the MHC region on chromosome 6p21.3, a region where many malignant, genetic and autoimmune disease genes are linked. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2009]	DHX16 (DEAH (Asp-Glu-Ala-His) Box Polypeptide 16) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Spliceosome and mRNA Splicing - Major Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleic acid binding and RNA helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DHX35.	Probable ATP-binding RNA helicase involved in pre-mRNA splicing	same
DHX29	empty	DHX29 (DEAH (Asp-Glu-Ala-His) Box Polypeptide 29) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Translational Control and Chromatin Regulation / Acetylation. GO annotations related to this gene include ATP-dependent helicase activity and ribosomal small subunit binding. An important paralog of this gene is DHX36.	ATP-binding RNA helicase involved in translation initiation. Part of the 43S preinitiation complex that is required for efficient initiation on mammalian mRNAs with structured 5-UTRs by promoting efficient NTPase-dependent 48S complex formation. Specifically binds to the 40S ribosome near the mRNA entrance. Does not possess a processive helicase activity.	same
DHRS4L2	This gene encodes a member of the short chain dehydrogenase reductase family. The encoded protein may be an NADPH dependent retinol oxidoreductase. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]	DHRS4L2 (Dehydrogenase/Reductase (SDR Family) Member 4 Like 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Chemical carcinogenesis. GO annotations related to this gene include oxidoreductase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DECR2.	Probable oxidoreductase.	same
DHRS4	empty	DHRS4 (Dehydrogenase/Reductase (SDR Family) Member 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and the visual cycle I (vertebrates). GO annotations related to this gene include receptor binding and carbonyl reductase (NADPH) activity. An important paralog of this gene is DECR2.	Reduces all-trans-retinal and 9-cis retinal. Can also catalyze the oxidation of all-trans-retinol with NADP as co-factor, but with much lower efficiency. Reduces alkyl phenyl ketones and alpha-dicarbonyl compounds with aromatic rings, such as pyrimidine-4-aldehyde, 3-benzoylpyridine, 4-benzoylpyridine, menadione and 4-hexanoylpyridine. Has no activity towards aliphatic aldehydes and ketones (By similarity).	same
DHX36	This gene is a member of the DEAH-box family of RNA-dependent NTPases which are named after the conserved amino acid sequence Asp-Glu-Ala-His in motif II. The protein encoded by this gene has been shown to enhance the deadenylation and decay of mRNAs with 3'-UTR AU-rich elements (ARE-mRNA). The protein has also been shown to resolve into single strands the highly stable tetramolecular DNA configuration (G4) that can form spontaneously in guanine-rich regions of DNA. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DHX36 (DEAH (Asp-Glu-Ala-His) Box Polypeptide 36) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cytosolic sensors of pathogen-associated DNA and RIG-I/MDA5 mediated induction of IFN-alpha/beta pathways. GO annotations related to this gene include ATP-dependent helicase activity and double-stranded RNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is DHX29.	Proposed to have a global role in regulating mRNA expression including transcriptional regulation and mRNA stability. Binds with high affinity to and resolves tetramolecular RNA and DNA quadruplex structures. Unwinds intramolecular quadruplexes derived from the ZIC1 and the MYC promoters. Binds to quadruplex structures in the promoters of YY1 and ALPL genes and regulates their expression. Binds to telomerase RNA template component (TERC) 5-end (nucleotides 1-43) and unwinds an internal quadruplex formation in TERC 5-end to promote P1 helix formation; the P1 helix acts as a template boundary ensuring accurate reverse transcription and is disrupted by quadruplex formation. May be involved in regulation of telomere length. Plays a role in degradation and deadenylation of mRNAs containing in their 3-UTR the consensus ARE sequence element. May function in sex development and spermatogenesis. May play a role in ossification.	same
DHX30	DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of this DEAD box protein family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. The family member encoded by this gene is a mitochondrial nucleoid protein that associates with mitochondrial DNA. It has also been identified as a component of a transcriptional repressor complex that functions in retinal development, and it is required to optimize the function of the zinc-finger antiviral protein. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2013]	DHX30 (DEAH (Asp-Glu-Ala-His) Box Helicase 30) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and ATP-dependent helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DHX29.	Required for optimal function of the zinc-finger antiviral protein ZC3HAV1 (By similarity). Associates with mitochondrial DNA.	same
DHX38	DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of this family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the DEAD/H box family of splicing factors. This protein resembles yeast Prp16 more closely than other DEAD/H family members. It is an ATPase and essential for the catalytic step II in pre-mRNA splicing process. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DHX38 (DEAH (Asp-Glu-Ala-His) Box Polypeptide 38) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and Spliceosome. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleic acid binding and ATP-dependent helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DHX40.	Probable ATP-binding RNA helicase involved in pre-mRNA splicing	same
DHX35	DEAD box proteins characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of the DEAD box protein family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. The function of this gene product which is a member of this family, has not been determined. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2010]	DHX35 (DEAH (Asp-Glu-Ala-His) Box Polypeptide 35) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleic acid binding and ATP-dependent helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DHX16.	May be involved in pre-mRNA splicing	same
DHX32	DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of this DEAD box protein family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. This gene encodes a member of this family. The function of this member has not been determined. Alternative splicing of this gene generates 2 transcript variants, but the full length nature of one of the variants has not been defined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DHX32 (DEAH (Asp-Glu-Ala-His) Box Polypeptide 32) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DHX35.	empty	same
DHX57	empty	DHX57 (DEAH (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp/His) Box Polypeptide 57) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleic acid binding and ATP-dependent helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DHX29.	Probable ATP-binding RNA helicase	same
DHRS7C	empty	DHRS7C (Dehydrogenase/Reductase (SDR Family) Member 7C) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include retinol dehydrogenase activity. An important paralog of this gene is HSD11B2.	Putative oxidoreductase.	same
DHX9	This gene encodes a member of the DEAH-containing family of RNA helicases. The encoded protein is an enzyme that catalyzes the ATP-dependent unwinding of double-stranded RNA and DNA-RNA complexes. This protein localizes to both the nucleus and the cytoplasm and functions as a transcriptional regulator. This protein may also be involved in the expression and nuclear export of retroviral RNAs. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Pseudogenes of this gene are found on chromosomes 11 and 13.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010]	DHX9 (DEAH (Asp-Glu-Ala-His) Box Helicase 9) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DHX9 include pseudopterygium. Among its related pathways are Gene Expression and mRNA Splicing - Major Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and ATP-dependent DNA helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DHX29.	Unwinds double-stranded DNA and RNA in a 3 to 5 direction. Alteration of secondary structure may subsequently influence interactions with proteins or other nucleic acids. Functions as a transcriptional activator. Component of the CRD-mediated complex that promotes MYC mRNA stability. Involved with LARP6 in the stabilization of type I collagen mRNAs for CO1A1 and CO1A2. As component of a large PER complex is involved in the inhibition of 3 transcriptional termination of circadian target genes such as PER1 and NR1D1 and the control of the circadian rhythms. Positively regulates HIV-1 LTR-directed gene expression.	same
DHRS9	This gene encodes a member of the short-chain dehydrogenases/reductases (SDR) family. The encoded protein has been identified as a moonlighting protein based on its ability to perform mechanistically distinct functions. This protein demonstrates oxidoreductase activity toward hydroxysteroids and is able to convert 3-alpha-tetrahydroprogesterone to dihydroxyprogesterone and 3-alpha-androstanediol to dihydroxyprogesterone in the cytoplasm, and may additionally function as a transcriptional repressor in the nucleus. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2014]	DHRS9 (Dehydrogenase/Reductase (SDR Family) Member 9) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DHRS9 include smith-lemli-opitz syndrome. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Disease. GO annotations related to this gene include retinol dehydrogenase activity and testosterone dehydrogenase (NAD+) activity. An important paralog of this gene is HSD11B2.	3-alpha-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase that converts 3-alpha-tetrahydroprogesterone (allopregnanolone) to dihydroxyprogesterone and 3-alpha-androstanediol to dihydroxyprogesterone. May play a role in the biosynthesis of retinoic acid from retinaldehyde, but seems to have low activity with retinoids. Can utilize both NADH and NADPH.	same
DHX8	This gene is a member of the DEAH box polypeptide family. The encoded protein contains the DEAH (Asp-Glu-Ala-His) motif which is characteristic of all DEAH box proteins, and is thought to function as an ATP-dependent RNA helicase that regulates the release of spliced mRNAs from spliceosomes prior to their export from the nucleus. This protein may be required for the replication of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014]	DHX8 (DEAH (Asp-Glu-Ala-His) Box Polypeptide 8) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DHX8 include atopic dermatitis and dermatitis. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and ATP-dependent RNA helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DHX35.	Facilitates nuclear export of spliced mRNA by releasing the RNA from the spliceosome.	same
DIAPH1	This gene is a homolog of the Drosophila diaphanous gene, and has been linked to autosomal dominant, fully penetrant, nonsyndromic sensorineural progressive low-frequency hearing loss. Actin polymerization involves proteins known to interact with diaphanous protein in Drosophila and mouse. It has therefore been speculated that this gene may have a role in the regulation of actin polymerization in hair cells of the inner ear. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DIAPH1 (Diaphanous-Related Formin 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DIAPH1 include deafness, autosomal dominant 1 and dfna 1 nonsyndromic hearing loss and deafness. Among its related pathways are Regulation of actin cytoskeleton and PAK Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and receptor binding. An important paralog of this gene is FMN2.	Acts in a Rho-dependent manner to recruit PFY1 to the membrane. Required for the assembly of F-actin structures, such as actin cables and stress fibers. Nucleates actin filaments. Binds to the barbed end of the actin filament and slows down actin polymerization and depolymerization. Required for cytokinesis, and transcriptional activation of the serum response factor. DFR proteins couple Rho and Src tyrosine kinase during signaling and the regulation of actin dynamics. Functions as a scaffold protein for MAPRE1 and APC to stabilize microtubules and promote cell migration (By similarity). Has neurite outgrowth promoting activity (By similarity). In hear cells, it may play a role in the regulation of actin polymerization in hair cells. The MEMO1-RHOA-DIAPH1 signaling pathway plays an important role in ERBB2-dependent stabilization of microtubules at the cell cortex. It controls the localization of APC and CLASP2 to the cell membrane, via the regulation of GSK3B activity. In turn, membrane-bound APC allows the localization of the MACF1 to the cell membrane, which is required for microtubule capture and stabilization. Plays a role in the regulation of cell morphology and cytoskeletal organization. Required in the control of cell shape.	same
DHX40	This gene encodes a member of the DExH/D box family of ATP-dependent RNA helicases that have an essential role in RNA metabolism. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome 17.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]	DHX40 (DEAH (Asp-Glu-Ala-His) Box Polypeptide 40) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DHX40 include norum disease. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleic acid binding and ATP-dependent helicase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DHX38.	Probable ATP-dependent RNA helicase.	same
DHX58	empty	DHX58 (DEXH (Asp-Glu-X-His) Box Polypeptide 58) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are RIG-I/MDA5 mediated induction of IFN-alpha/beta pathways and RIG-I/MDA5 mediated induction of IFN-alpha/beta pathways. GO annotations related to this gene include helicase activity and single-stranded RNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is DDX58.	Acts as a regulator of DDX58/RIG-I and IFIH1/MDA5 mediated antiviral signaling. Cannot initiate antiviral signaling as it lacks the CARD domain required for activating MAVS/IPS1-dependent signaling events. Can have both negative and positive regulatory functions related to DDX58/RIG-I and IFIH1/MDA5 signaling and this role in regulating signaling may be complex and could probably depend on characteristics of the infecting virus or target cells, or both. Its inhibitory action on DDX58/RIG-I signaling may involve the following mechanisms: competition with DDX58/RIG-I for binding to the viral RNA, binding to DDX58/RIG-I and inhibiting its dimerization and interaction with MAVS/IPS1, competing with IKBKE in its binding to MAVS/IPS1 thereby inhibiting activation of interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3). Its positive regulatory role may involve unwinding or stripping nucleoproteins of viral RNA thereby facilitating their recognition by DDX58/RIG-I and IFIH1/MDA5. Involved in the innate immune response to various RNA viruses and some DNA viruses such as poxviruses, and also to the bacterial pathogen Listeria monocytogenes. Can bind both ssRNA and dsRNA, with a higher affinity for dsRNA. Shows a preference to 5-triphosphorylated RNA, although it can recognize RNA lacking a 5-triphosphate.	same
DIAPH2	The product of this gene belongs to the diaphanous subfamily of the formin homology family of proteins. This gene may play a role in the development and normal function of the ovaries. Defects in this gene have been linked to premature ovarian failure 2. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DIAPH2 (Diaphanous-Related Formin 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DIAPH2 include premature ovarian failure. Among its related pathways are Regulation of actin cytoskeleton and Cytoskeletal Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding and Rho GTPase binding. An important paralog of this gene is FMN2.	Could be involved in oogenesis. Involved in the regulation of endosome dynamics. Implicated in a novel signal transduction pathway, in which isoform 3 and CSK are sequentially activated by RHOD to regulate the motility of early endosomes through interactions with the actin cytoskeleton.	same
DHX34	DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of this DEAD box protein family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. This gene encodes a member of this family. It is mapped to the glioma 19q tumor suppressor region and is a tumor suppressor candidate gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DHX34 (DEAH (Asp-Glu-Ala-His) Box Polypeptide 34) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DHX34 include atopic dermatitis and dermatitis. Among its related pathways are Signaling by GPCR and Signaling by GPCR. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and ATP-dependent helicase activity.	Probable ATP-binding RNA helicase	same
DHX40P1	empty	DHX40P1 (DEAH (Asp-Glu-Ala-His) Box Polypeptide 40 Pseudogene 1) is a Pseudogene.	empty	same
DIAPH3	This gene encodes a member of the diaphanous subfamily of the formin family. Members of this family are involved in actin remodeling and regulate cell movement and adhesion. Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal dominant auditory neuropathy 1. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012]	DIAPH3 (Diaphanous-Related Formin 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DIAPH3 include auditory neuropathy, autosomal dominant, 1 and auditory neuropathy. Among its related pathways are Regulation of actin cytoskeleton and ERK Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding and Rho GTPase binding. An important paralog of this gene is FMN2.	Binds to GTP-bound form of Rho and to profilin. Acts in a Rho-dependent manner to recruit profilin to the membrane, where it promotes actin polymerization. It is required for cytokinesis, stress fiber formation, and transcriptional activation of the serum response factor. DFR proteins couple Rho and Src tyrosine kinase during signaling and the regulation of actin dynamics (By similarity).	same
DICER1	This gene encodes a protein possessing an RNA helicase motif containing a DEXH box in its amino terminus and an RNA motif in the carboxy terminus. The encoded protein functions as a ribonuclease and is required by the RNA interference and small temporal RNA (stRNA) pathways to produce the active small RNA component that represses gene expression. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]	DICER1 (Dicer 1, Ribonuclease Type III) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DICER1 include pleuropulmonary blastoma and goiter, multinodular 1, with or without sertoli-leydig cell tumors. Among its related pathways are MicroRNAs in cancer and Translational Control. GO annotations related to this gene include ATP-dependent helicase activity and miRNA binding. An important paralog of this gene is DDX58.	Double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) endoribonuclease playing a central role in short dsRNA-mediated post-transcriptional gene silencing. Cleaves naturally occurring long dsRNAs and short hairpin pre-microRNAs (miRNA) into fragments of twenty-one to twenty-three nucleotides with 3 overhang of two nucleotides, producing respectively short interfering RNAs (siRNA) and mature microRNAs. SiRNAs and miRNAs serve as guide to direct the RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC) to complementary RNAs to degrade them or prevent their translation. Gene silencing mediated by siRNAs, also called RNA interference, controls the elimination of transcripts from mobile and repetitive DNA elements of the genome but also the degradation of exogenous RNA of viral origin for instance. The miRNA pathway on the other side is a mean to specifically regulate the expression of target genes.	same
DIMT1L	empty	DIMT1 (DIM1 Dimethyladenosine Transferase 1 Homolog (S. Cerevisiae)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and 18S rRNA (adenine(1779)-N(6)/adenine(1780)-N(6))-dimethyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is TFB1M.	Specifically dimethylates two adjacent adenosines in the loop of a conserved hairpin near the 3-end of 18S rRNA in the 40S particle.	diff
DIDO1	Apoptosis, a major form of cell death, is an efficient mechanism for eliminating unwanted cells and is of central importance for development and homeostasis in metazoan animals. In mice, the death inducer-obliterator-1 gene is upregulated by apoptotic signals and encodes a cytoplasmic protein that translocates to the nucleus upon apoptotic signal activation. When overexpressed, the mouse protein induced apoptosis in cell lines growing in vitro. This gene is similar to the mouse gene and therefore is thought to be involved in apoptosis. Alternatively spliced transcripts have been found for this gene, encoding multiple isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DIDO1 (Death Inducer-Obliterator 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Cell Cycle, Mitotic and Metabolism. An important paralog of this gene is SPOCD1.	Putative transcription factor, weakly pro-apoptotic when overexpressed (By similarity). Tumor suppressor. Required for early embryonic stem cell development.	same
DIO1	The protein encoded by this gene is a thiol-requiring propylthiouracil-sensitive oxidoreductase. It activates thyroid hormone by converting the prohormone thyroxine (T4) by outer ring deiodination (ORD) to bioactive 3,3',5-triiodothyronine (T3). It also degrades both hormones by inner ring deiodination (IRD). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. Some, but not all, isoforms contain a selenocysteine (Sec) residue encoded by the UGA codon, which normally signals translation termination. The 3' UTR of Sec-containing genes have a common stem-loop structure, the sec insertion sequence (SECIS), which is necessary for the recognition of UGA as a Sec codon rather than as a stop signal. Additional transcript variants have been described but are not supported by experimental evidence. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DIO1 (Deiodinase, Iodothyronine, Type I) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DIO1 include keshan disease and euthyroid sick syndrome. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism of amino acids and derivatives. GO annotations related to this gene include selenium binding and thyroxine 5-deiodinase activity.	Responsible for the deiodination of T4 (3,5,3,5-tetraiodothyronine) into T3 (3,5,3-triiodothyronine) and of T3 into T2 (3,3-diiodothyronine). Plays a role in providing a source of plasma T3 by deiodination of T4 in peripheral tissues such as liver and kidney	same
DHX37	This gene encodes a DEAD box protein. DEAD box proteins, characterized by the conserved motif Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp (DEAD), are putative RNA helicases. They are implicated in a number of cellular processes involving alteration of RNA secondary structure such as translation initiation, nuclear and mitochondrial splicing, and ribosome and spliceosome assembly. Based on their distribution patterns, some members of this family are believed to be involved in embryogenesis, spermatogenesis, and cellular growth and division. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DHX37 (DEAH (Asp-Glu-Ala-His) Box Polypeptide 37) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include nucleic acid binding and ATP-dependent helicase activity.	empty	same
DIO3OS	The mouse and human DIO3OS and DIO3 (MIM 601038) genes overlap and are transcribed in opposite directions. The mouse Dio3 gene is imprinted from the paternal allele during fetal development, suggesting that DIO3OS is a noncoding gene that may have a role in maintaining monoallelic expression of DIO3 (Hernandez et al., 2004 [PubMed 14962667]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008]	DIO3OS (DIO3 Opposite Strand/Antisense RNA (Head To Head)) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	same
DIO2	The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the iodothyronine deiodinase family. It activates thyroid hormone by converting the prohormone thyroxine (T4) by outer ring deiodination (ORD) to bioactive 3,3',5-triiodothyronine (T3). It is highly expressed in the thyroid, and may contribute significantly to the relative increase in thyroidal T3 production in patients with Graves disease and thyroid adenomas. This protein contains selenocysteine (Sec) residues encoded by the UGA codon, which normally signals translation termination. The 3' UTR of Sec-containing genes have a common stem-loop structure, the sec insertion sequence (SECIS), which is necessary for the recognition of UGA as a Sec codon rather than as a stop signal. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DIO2 (Deiodinase, Iodothyronine, Type II) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DIO2 include kashin-beck disease and graves' disease. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism of amino acids and derivatives. GO annotations related to this gene include ubiquitin protein ligase binding and thyroxine 5-deiodinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DIO3.	Responsible for the deiodination of T4 (3,5,3,5-tetraiodothyronine) into T3 (3,5,3-triiodothyronine). Essential for providing the brain with appropriate levels of T3 during the critical period of development	same
DIP2B	This gene encodes a member of the disco-interacting protein homolog 2 protein family. The encoded protein contains a binding site for the transcriptional regulator DNA methyltransferase 1 associated protein 1 as well as AMP-binding sites. The presence of these sites suggests that the encoded protein may participate in DNA methylation. This gene is located near a folate-sensitive fragile site, and CGG-repeat expansion in the promoter of this gene which affects transcription has been detected in individuals containing this fragile site on chromosome 12. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011]	DIP2B (DIP2 Disco-Interacting Protein 2 Homolog B (Drosophila)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DIP2B include mental retardation, fra12a type. GO annotations related to this gene include transcription factor binding. An important paralog of this gene is DIP2A.	empty	same
DIP2C	This gene encodes a member of the disco-interacting protein homolog 2 family. The protein shares strong similarity with a Drosophila protein which interacts with the transcription factor disco and is expressed in the nervous system. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008]	DIP2C (DIP2 Disco-Interacting Protein 2 Homolog C (Drosophila)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include transcription factor binding. An important paralog of this gene is DIP2A.	empty	same
DIO3	The protein encoded by this intronless gene belongs to the iodothyronine deiodinase family. It catalyzes the inactivation of thyroid hormone by inner ring deiodination of the prohormone thyroxine (T4) and the bioactive hormone 3,3',5-triiodothyronine (T3) to inactive metabolites, 3,3',5'-triiodothyronine (RT3) and 3,3'-diiodothyronine (T2), respectively. This enzyme is highly expressed in the pregnant uterus, placenta, fetal and neonatal tissues, suggesting that it plays an essential role in the regulation of thyroid hormone inactivation during embryological development. This protein contains a selenocysteine (Sec) residue, which is essential for efficient enzyme activity. The selenocysteine is encoded by the UGA codon, which normally signals translation termination. The 3' UTR of Sec-containing genes have a common stem-loop structure, the sec insertion sequence (SECIS), which is necessary for the recognition of UGA as a Sec codon rather than as a stop signal. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DIO3 (Deiodinase, Iodothyronine, Type III) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DIO3 include familial partial lipodystrophy and hepatocellular carcinoma. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism of amino acids and derivatives. GO annotations related to this gene include thyroxine 5-deiodinase activity and thyroxine 5-deiodinase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DIO2.	Responsible for the deiodination of T4 (3,5,3,5-tetraiodothyronine) into RT3 (3,3,5-triiodothyronine) and of T3 (3,5,3-triiodothyronine) into T2 (3,3-diiodothyronine). RT3 and T2 are inactive metabolites. May play a role in preventing premature exposure of developing fetal tissues to adult levels of thyroid hormones. Can regulate circulating fetal thyroid hormone concentrations throughout gestation. Essential role for regulation of thyroid hormone inactivation during embryological development.	same
DIRAS1	DIRAS1 belongs to a distinct branch of the functionally diverse Ras (see HRAS; MIM 190020) superfamily of monomeric GTPases.[supplied by OMIM, Apr 2004]	DIRAS1 (DIRAS Family, GTP-Binding RAS-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding and GTPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is RAP2B.	Displays low GTPase activity and exist predominantly in the GTP-bound form	same
DIRAS2	DIRAS2 belongs to a distinct branch of the functionally diverse Ras (see HRAS; MIM 190020) superfamily of monomeric GTPases.[supplied by OMIM, Apr 2004]	DIRAS2 (DIRAS Family, GTP-Binding RAS-Like 2) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding and GTPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is RAP2B.	Displays low GTPase activity and exist predominantly in the GTP-bound form	same
DIABLO	This gene encodes an inhibitor of apoptosis protein (IAP)-binding protein. The encoded mitochondrial protein enters the cytosol when cells undergo apoptosis, and allows activation of caspases by binding to inhibitor of apoptosis proteins. Overexpression of the encoded protein sensitizes tumor cells to apoptosis. A mutation in this gene is associated with young-adult onset of nonsyndromic deafness-64. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, May 2013]	DIABLO (Diablo, IAP-Binding Mitochondrial Protein) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DIABLO include deafness, autosomal dominant 64 and nonsyndromic deafness. Among its related pathways are ERK Signaling and Apoptotic Pathways in Synovial Fibroblasts.	Promotes apoptosis by activating caspases in the cytochrome c/Apaf-1/caspase-9 pathway. Acts by opposing the inhibitory activity of inhibitor of apoptosis proteins (IAP). Inhibits the activity of BIRC6/bruce by inhibiting its binding to caspases. Isoform 3 attenuates the stability and apoptosis-inhibiting activity of XIAP/BIRC4 by promoting XIAP/BIRC4 ubiquitination and degradation through the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. Isoform 3 also disrupts XIAP/BIRC4 interacting with processed caspase-9 and promotes caspase-3 activation. Isoform 1 is defective in the capacity to down-regulate the XIAP/BIRC4 abundance.	same
DIRC3	empty	DIRC3 (Disrupted In Renal Carcinoma 3) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class. Diseases associated with DIRC3 include thyroid carcinoma, papillary.	empty	same
DIRC1	This gene consists of two exons and encodes a 104aa protein. Disruption of this gene by translocation t(2;3)(q33;q21) is associated with familial clear cell renal cancer. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010]	DIRC1 (Disrupted In Renal Carcinoma 1) is a Protein Coding gene.	empty	same
DIS3L	empty	DIS3L (DIS3 Like Exosome 3'-5' Exoribonuclease) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Deadenylation-dependent mRNA decay. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and 3-5-exoribonuclease activity. An important paralog of this gene is DIS3L2.	Putative cytoplasm-specific catalytic component of the RNA exosome complex which has 3->5 exoribonuclease activity and participates in a multitude of cellular RNA processing and degradation events. In the cytoplasm, the RNA exosome complex is involved in general mRNA turnover and specifically degrades inherently unstable mRNAs containing AU-rich elements (AREs) within their 3 untranslated regions, and in RNA surveillance pathways, preventing translation of aberrant mRNAs. It seems to be involved in degradation of histone mRNA.	same
DIS3L2	The protein encoded by this gene is similar in sequence to 3'/5' exonucleolytic subunits of the RNA exosome. The exosome is a large multimeric ribonucleotide complex responsible for degrading various RNA substrates. Several transcript variants, some protein-coding and some not, have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012]	DIS3L2 (DIS3 Like 3'-5' Exoribonuclease 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DIS3L2 include perlman syndrome and wilms tumor. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and ribonuclease activity. An important paralog of this gene is DIS3L.	3-5-exoribonuclease that specifically recognizes RNAs polyuridylated at their 3 end and mediates their degradation. Component of an exosome-independent RNA degradation pathway that mediates degradation of both mRNAs and miRNAs that have been polyuridylated by a terminal uridylyltransferase, such as ZCCHC11/TUT4. Mediates degradation of cytoplasmic mRNAs that have been deadenylated and subsequently uridylated at their 3. Mediates degradation of uridylated pre-let-7 miRNAs, contributing to the maintenance of embryonic stem (ES) cells. Essential for correct mitosis, and negatively regulates cell proliferation.	same
DIRAS3	This gene is a member of the ras superfamily, and is expressed in normal ovarian and breast epithelial cells, but not in ovarian and breast cancers. It is an imprinted gene, with monoallelic expression of the paternal allele, which is associated with growth suppression. Thus, this gene appears to be a putative tumor suppressor gene whose function is abrogated in ovarian and breast cancers. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]	DIRAS3 (DIRAS Family, GTP-Binding RAS-Like 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are RhoGDI Pathway and Akt Signaling. GO annotations related to this gene include GTP binding and GTPase activity. An important paralog of this gene is RAP2B.	empty	same
DISC2	DISC2 is thought to specify a noncoding RNA molecule antisense to DISC1 (MIM 605210). Both genes were found to be disrupted by a translocation in a large schizophrenia (MIM 181500) kindred.[supplied by OMIM, Jul 2002]	DISC2 (Disrupted In Schizophrenia 2 (Non-Protein Coding)) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the non-coding RNA class. Diseases associated with DISC2 include schizophrenia.	empty	same
DISP1	The pattern of cellular proliferation and differentiation that leads to normal development of embryonic structures often depends upon the localized production of secreted protein signals. Cells surrounding the source of a particular signal respond in a graded manner according to the effective concentration of the signal, and this response produces the pattern of cell types constituting the mature structure. A novel segment-polarity gene known as dispatched has been identified in Drosophila and its protein product is required for normal Hedgehog (Hh) signaling. This gene is one of two human homologs of Drosophila dispatched and, based on sequence identity to its mouse counterpart, the encoded protein may play an essential role in Hh patterning activities in the early embryo. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DISP1 (Dispatched Homolog 1 (Drosophila)) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DISP1 include septopreoptic holoprosencephaly and midline interhemispheric variant of holoprosencephaly. Among its related pathways are Hedgehog Signaling Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include hedgehog receptor activity and peptide transporter activity. An important paralog of this gene is DISP2.	Functions in hedgehog (Hh) signaling. Regulates the release and extracellular accumulation of cholesterol-modified hedgehog proteins and is hence required for effective production of the Hh signal (By similarity).	same
DIP2A	The protein encoded by this gene may be involved in axon patterning in the central nervous system. This gene is not highly expressed. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009]	DIP2A (DIP2 Disco-Interacting Protein 2 Homolog A (Drosophila)) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include transcription factor binding. An important paralog of this gene is DIP2C.	May provide positional cues for axon pathfinding and patterning in the central nervous system	same
DISP2	The pattern of cellular proliferation and differentiation that leads to normal development of embryonic structures often depends upon the localized production of secreted protein signals. Cells surrounding the source of a particular signal respond in a graded manner according to the effective concentration of the signal, and this response produces the pattern of cell types constituting the mature structure. A segment-polarity gene known as dispatched has been identified in Drosophila and its protein product is required for normal Hedgehog (Hh) signaling. This gene is one of two human homologs of Drosophila dispatched. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DISP2 (Dispatched Homolog 2 (Drosophila)) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Hedgehog Signaling Pathway. An important paralog of this gene is PTCHD2.	empty	same
DKFZP434L187	empty	DKFZP434L187 (Uncharacterized LOC26082) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	same
DKFZp434J0226	empty	DKFZp434J0226 (Uncharacterized LOC93429) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the processed_transcript RNA class.	empty	same
DKFZP586I1420	empty	DKFZP586I1420 (Uncharacterized Protein DKFZp586I1420) is a Pseudogene.	empty	same
DKFZP686I15217	empty	LINC01011 (Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 1011) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	diff
DKFZp566F0947	empty	empty	empty	same
DKFZp434L192	empty	DKFZp434L192 (Uncharacterized Protein DKFZp434L192) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the lncRNA class.	empty	same
DKFZp686A1627	empty	PHF2P1 (PHD Finger Protein 2 Pseudogene 1) is a Pseudogene.	empty	diff
DIRC2	This gene encodes a membrane-bound protein from the major facilitator superfamily of transporters. Disruption of this gene by translocation has been associated with haplo-insufficiency and renal cell carcinomas. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described, but their biological validity has not yet been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DIRC2 (Disrupted In Renal Carcinoma 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DIRC2 include seminal vesicle tumor and familial renal cell carcinoma. An important paralog of this gene is FLVCR2.	Electrogenic metabolite transporter.	same
DKFZp779M0652	empty	DKFZp779M0652 (Uncharacterized DKFZp779M0652) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the ncRNA class.	empty	same
DKFZp761E198	empty	AP5B1 (Adaptor-Related Protein Complex 5, Beta 1 Subunit) is a Protein Coding gene.	As part of AP-5, a probable fifth adaptor protein complex it may be involved in endosomal transport.	diff
DKFZp686O24166	B7H6 belongs to the B7 family (see MIM 605402) and is selectively expressed on tumor cells. Interaction of B7H6 with NKp30 (NCR3; MIM 611550) results in natural killer (NK) cell activation and cytotoxicity (Brandt et al., 2009 [PubMed 19528259]).[supplied by OMIM, Jan 2011]	NCR3LG1 (Natural Killer Cell Cytotoxicity Receptor 3 Ligand 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include structural molecule activity.	Triggers NCR3-dependent natural killer cell activation.	diff
DIS3	empty	DIS3 (DIS3 Exosome Endoribonuclease And 3'-5' Exoribonuclease) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Biosynthesis of the N-glycan precursor (dolichol lipid-linked oligosaccharide, LLO) and transfer to a nascent protein and Unfolded Protein Response. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and endonuclease activity. An important paralog of this gene is DIS3L.	Putative catalytic component of the RNA exosome complex which has 3->5 exoribonuclease activity and participates in a multitude of cellular RNA processing and degradation events. In the nucleus, the RNA exosome complex is involved in proper maturation of stable RNA species such as rRNA, snRNA and snoRNA, in the elimination of RNA processing by-products and non-coding pervasive transcripts, such as antisense RNA species and promoter-upstream transcripts (PROMPTs), and of mRNAs with processing defects, thereby limiting or excluding their export to the cytoplasm. The RNA exosome may be involved in Ig class switch recombination (CSR) and/or Ig variable region somatic hypermutation (SHM) by targeting AICDA deamination activity to transcribed dsDNA substrates. In the cytoplasm, the RNA exosome complex is involved in general mRNA turnover and specifically degrades inherently unstable mRNAs containing AU-rich elements (AREs) within their 3 untranslated regions, and in RNA surveillance pathways, preventing translation of aberrant mRNAs. It seems to be involved in degradation of histone mRNA. DIS3 has both 3-5 exonuclease and endonuclease activities.	same
DKC1	This gene functions in two distinct complexes. It plays an active role in telomerase stabilization and maintenance, as well as recognition of snoRNAs containing H/ACA sequences which provides stability during biogenesis and assembly into H/ACA small nucleolar RNA ribonucleoproteins (snoRNPs). This gene is highly conserved and widely expressed, and may play additional roles in nucleo-cytoplasmic shuttling, DNA damage response, and cell adhesion. Mutations have been associated with X-linked dyskeratosis congenita. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2014]	DKC1 (Dyskeratosis Congenita 1, Dyskerin) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DKC1 include dyskeratosis congenita, x-linked and dyskeratosis congenita. Among its related pathways are Apoptotic Pathways in Synovial Fibroblasts and Cell Cycle, Mitotic. GO annotations related to this gene include RNA binding and telomerase activity.	Isoform 1: Required for ribosome biogenesis and telomere maintenance. Probable catalytic subunit of H/ACA small nucleolar ribonucleoprotein (H/ACA snoRNP) complex, which catalyzes pseudouridylation of rRNA. This involves the isomerization of uridine such that the ribose is subsequently attached to C5, instead of the normal N1. Each rRNA can contain up to 100 pseudouridine (psi) residues, which may serve to stabilize the conformation of rRNAs. Also required for correct processing or intranuclear trafficking of TERC, the RNA component of the telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) holoenzyme	same
DKK4	This gene encodes a protein that is a member of the dickkopf family. The secreted protein contains two cysteine rich regions and is involved in embryonic development through its interactions with the Wnt signaling pathway. Activity of this protein is modulated by binding to the Wnt co-receptor and the co-factor kremen 2. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DKK4 (Dickkopf WNT Signaling Pathway Inhibitor 4) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Regulation of Wnt-mediated beta catenin signaling and target gene transcription and Wnt signaling pathway (KEGG). An important paralog of this gene is DKK1.	Antagonizes canonical Wnt signaling by inhibiting LRP5/6 interaction with Wnt and by forming a ternary complex with the transmembrane protein KREMEN that promotes internalization of LRP5/6. DKKs play an important role in vertebrate development, where they locally inhibit Wnt regulated processes such as antero-posterior axial patterning, limb development, somitogenesis and eye formation. In the adult, Dkks are implicated in bone formation and bone disease, cancer and Alzheimer disease (By similarity).	same
DKK2	This gene encodes a protein that is a member of the dickkopf family. The secreted protein contains two cysteine rich regions and is involved in embryonic development through its interactions with the Wnt signaling pathway. It can act as either an agonist or antagonist of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling, depending on the cellular context and the presence of the co-factor kremen 2. Activity of this protein is also modulated by binding to the Wnt co-receptor LDL-receptor related protein 6 (LRP6). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DKK2 (Dickkopf WNT Signaling Pathway Inhibitor 2) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Wnt / Hedgehog / Notch and Wnt signaling pathway (KEGG). An important paralog of this gene is DKK1.	Antagonizes canonical Wnt signaling by inhibiting LRP5/6 interaction with Wnt and by forming a ternary complex with the transmembrane protein KREMEN that promotes internalization of LRP5/6. DKKs play an important role in vertebrate development, where they locally inhibit Wnt regulated processes such as antero-posterior axial patterning, limb development, somitogenesis and eye formation. In the adult, Dkks are implicated in bone formation and bone disease, cancer and Alzheimer disease (By similarity).	same
DKK3	This gene encodes a protein that is a member of the dickkopf family. The secreted protein contains two cysteine rich regions and is involved in embryonic development through its interactions with the Wnt signaling pathway. The expression of this gene is decreased in a variety of cancer cell lines and it may function as a tumor suppressor gene. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DKK3 (Dickkopf WNT Signaling Pathway Inhibitor 3) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Non-Canonical Wnt Pathway and Non-Canonical Wnt Pathway.	Antagonizes canonical Wnt signaling by inhibiting LRP5/6 interaction with Wnt and by forming a ternary complex with the transmembrane protein KREMEN that promotes internalization of LRP5/6. DKKs play an important role in vertebrate development, where they locally inhibit Wnt regulated processes such as antero-posterior axial patterning, limb development, somitogenesis and eye formation. In the adult, Dkks are implicated in bone formation and bone disease, cancer and Alzheimer disease (By similarity).	same
DKK1	This gene encodes a protein that is a member of the dickkopf family. It is a secreted protein with two cysteine rich regions and is involved in embryonic development through its inhibition of the WNT signaling pathway. Elevated levels of DKK1 in bone marrow plasma and peripheral blood is associated with the presence of osteolytic bone lesions in patients with multiple myeloma. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008]	DKK1 (Dickkopf WNT Signaling Pathway Inhibitor 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DKK1 include idiopathic juvenile osteoporosis and leprechaunism. Among its related pathways are Cardiac Progenitor Differentiation and Human Embryonic Stem Cell Pluripotency. GO annotations related to this gene include signal transducer activity and low-density lipoprotein particle receptor binding. An important paralog of this gene is DKK4.	Antagonizes canonical Wnt signaling by inhibiting LRP5/6 interaction with Wnt and by forming a ternary complex with the transmembrane protein KREMEN that promotes internalization of LRP5/6. DKKs play an important role in vertebrate development, where they locally inhibit Wnt regulated processes such as antero-posterior axial patterning, limb development, somitogenesis and eye formation. In the adult, Dkks are implicated in bone formation and bone disease, cancer and Alzheimer disease.	same
DLAT	This gene encodes component E2 of the multi-enzyme pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDC). PDC resides in the inner mitochondrial membrane and catalyzes the conversion of pyruvate to acetyl coenzyme A. The protein product of this gene, dihydrolipoamide acetyltransferase, accepts acetyl groups formed by the oxidative decarboxylation of pyruvate and transfers them to coenzyme A. Dihydrolipoamide acetyltransferase is the antigen for antimitochondrial antibodies. These autoantibodies are present in nearly 95% of patients with the autoimmune liver disease primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC). In PBC, activated T lymphocytes attack and destroy epithelial cells in the bile duct where this protein is abnormally distributed and overexpressed. PBC enventually leads to cirrhosis and liver failure. Mutations in this gene are also a cause of pyruvate dehydrogenase E2 deficiency which causes primary lactic acidosis in infancy and early childhood.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009]	DLAT (Dihydrolipoamide S-Acetyltransferase) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with DLAT include pyruvate dehydrogenase e2 deficiency and mycobacterium gordonae. Among its related pathways are Metabolism and Metabolism. GO annotations related to this gene include dihydrolipoyllysine-residue acetyltransferase activity. An important paralog of this gene is DBT.	The pyruvate dehydrogenase complex catalyzes the overall conversion of pyruvate to acetyl-CoA and CO(2), and thereby links the glycolytic pathway to the tricarboxylic cycle	same
DKFZP434K028	empty	DKFZP434K028 (Uncharacterized LOC26070) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class.	empty	same
DKFZP434H168	empty	DKFZP434H168 (Uncharacterized LOC26077) is an RNA Gene, and is affiliated with the antisense RNA class.	empty	same
ANXA6	Annexin VI belongs to a family of calcium-dependent membrane and phospholipid binding proteins. Several members of the annexin family have been implicated in membrane-related events along exocytotic and endocytotic pathways. The annexin VI gene is approximately 60 kbp long and contains 26 exons. It encodes a protein of about 68 kDa that consists of eight 68-amino acid repeats separated by linking sequences of variable lengths. It is highly similar to human annexins I and II sequences, each of which contain four such repeats. Annexin VI has been implicated in mediating the endosome aggregation and vesicle fusion in secreting epithelia during exocytosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010]	ANXA6 (Annexin A6) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with ANXA6 include kwashiorkor and neonatal lupus erythematosus. Among its related pathways are Myometrial Relaxation and Contraction Pathways and Prostaglandin Synthesis and Regulation. GO annotations related to this gene include calcium ion binding and calcium-dependent phospholipid binding. An important paralog of this gene is ANXA9.	May associate with CD21. May regulate the release of Ca(2+) from intracellular stores	same
DIXDC1	The protein encoded by this gene is a positive regulator of the Wnt signaling pathway. The encoded protein is found associated with gamma tubulin at the centrosome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2013]	DIXDC1 (DIX Domain Containing 1) is a Protein Coding gene. GO annotations related to this gene include actin binding and mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase binding. An important paralog of this gene is DVL2.	Positive effector of the Wnt signaling pathway; activates WNT3A signaling via DVL2. Regulates JNK activation by AXIN1 and DVL2.	same
DKKL1	The dickkopf protein family interacts with the Wnt signaling pathway and its members are characterized by two conserved cysteine-rich domains. This gene encodes a secreted protein that has low sequence similarity to the dickkopf-3 protein. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010]	DKKL1 (Dickkopf-Like 1) is a Protein Coding gene. Among its related pathways are Non-Canonical Wnt Pathway and Non-Canonical Wnt Pathway. GO annotations related to this gene include signal transducer activity.	empty	same
